ransomware10.txt
EBay, the world's largest Internet auctioneer, said Wednesday that it planned to add 300 workers in Ireland as it enlarged the company's international headquarters. The expansion will increase EBay's Irish work force by one-third to around 1,200 at Blanchardstown, in west Dublin, the company said. EBay, based in San Jose, California, opened the facility in Dublin in 2003. EBay said that it would add multilingual customer support, compliance and finance workers among others in Dublin, and move some into a newly leased office on the site. (Bloomberg) Nissan to let its cars help with the braking YOKOSUKA, Japan: Nissan Motor said that it had developed a safety feature to help a driver maintain a uniform distance when following a vehicle at slow speeds. The system, which uses a radar sensor to determine the relative speed of both vehicles and the distance between them, is especially handy in heavy traffic when frequent braking is needed, Nissan said. The distance-controlling system automatically applies the brakes when the driver releases the gas pedal within range of the car ahead.If the driver is stepping on the accelerator within a predetermined range, the system kicks in to push the driver's foot back from the pedal while simultaneously sounding a buzzer and providing a visual warning on the instrument panel, prompting the driver to apply the brakes.(Reuters) Cities vie for meeting PARIS: Birmingham, Dubai, Geneva and Paris are competing to host the 2009 version of ITU Telecom World, a United Nations- sponsored industry gathering that meets once every three years. This year, the conference will meet in Hong Kong in December, the first time it has taken place outside of Geneva, home of the International Telecommunication Union, a UN agency that brings governments and the private sector together on public policy issues. Hong Kong's financial secretary has estimated that the conference would bring direct economic benefits to the local economy of 1.2 billion Hong Kong dollars, or $155 million. Several thousand government dignitaries and chief executives typically attend the show. On Monday, the ITU Telecom board is scheduled to make a recommendation to the secretary general, who will make a decision soon after. The competing venues are the National Exhibit Center in Birmingham, Parc des Expositions in Paris, Palexpo in Geneva and Jebel Ali Exhibition City in Dubai.(IHT) Livedoor may sell stake TOKYO: Livedoor, the troubled Japanese Internet company, is in talks to sell a stake to four investors including the cable radio and fiber-optic Internet service provider Usen, a Livedoor executive said. Livedoor, which was charged this week with fraud, plans to reach an agreement on a stake sale or an alliance this month, said the executive, who declined to be named. Crosby Capital Partners, an investment bank and fund manager, said that it wanted to buy the stake.(Bloomberg) New bug 'ransoms' files WASHINGTON: In the equivalent of a holdup in cyberspace, a new computer bug locks up a user's file with encryption and demands a $300 "ransom," security experts say. The so-called "ransomware" Trojan horse was discovered Saturday by the security firm LURHQ, which said it was based on a similar scheme perpetrated 15 years ago. Users whose computers are infected receive an e-mail stating that their files have been encrypted and will not be unlocked unless they transfer $300to a special account. LURHQ said it was not clear how the Trojan was spread, but experts said it could be through infected e- mails or from visiting certain Web sites.(AFP) ECHOSTAR COMMUNICATIONS,the second-biggest U.S. satellite-television broadcaster after DirecTV, said that fourth-quarter profit almost doubled to $133 million, from $70 million a year earlier, as the company added 330,000 new customers.Revenue rose 13 percent to $2.18 billion.(Bloomberg) AMERICA ONLINE, the Internet unit of Time Warner, has started an online television network showing 30 classic Warner Brothers TV series including "Growing Pains," "Chico and The Man, " and "Eight is Enough," to lure broadband users.The In2TV channel on AOL.com, was announced in November. AOL is hoping to tap the $1 billion market for online video ads by attracting viewers and listeners with exclusive content that can differentiate it from rivals such as Yahoo. (Bloomberg) AUSTRIA would consider an offer for its 25 percent stake in Telekom Austria but is not actively seeking a buyer before elections this year, the head of Austria's state privatization agency said. Peter Michaelis, chief of the OeIAG agency, said that he had received no approaches recently.(Reuters) 