ransomware14.txt
An on Thursday about David Mamet’s current plays on Broadway quoted incorrectly from comments by another playwright, Jon Robin Baitz, and in so doing summarized his view of Mr. Mamet’s work incorrectly. Mr. Baitz, discussing recent political statements by Mr. Mamet, referred to the “reactionary politicization” of his views. He did not call Mr. Mamet’s plays “reactionary polemics” and he was not one of several playwrights to criticize Mr. Mamet for ponderous plays. (Mr. Baitz says he believes that Mr. Mamet’s plays have had a major influence on American playwriting.) • An on Wednesday about a lawsuit challenging Rhode Island’s public pension overhaul misattributed a quotation in some copies. It was Amy B. Monahan, a University of Minnesota law professor — not Gina Raimondo, the state treasurer — who called the effort “the clearest example of fundamental pension reform we have right now. Even though whatever Rhode Island decides doesn’t serve as actual precedent for other states, other states and cities still want to know if it can work.” The article also referred imprecisely to the party in the suit that would be represented by David Boies, a prominent New York lawyer who is seeking permission to join the case as co-counsel. He would represent the Employees’ Retirement System of Rhode Island and its board members, not the state itself. (The state, in the persons of Gov. Lincoln D. Chafee and Ms. Raimondo, will be represented by the state attorney general’s office.) • An on Thursday about an insider trading investigation of the hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors referred imprecisely to illegal trading by two former SAC employees, Noah Freeman and Donald Longueuil. While the two men pleaded guilty to participating in an insider trading conspiracy while working at SAC, one of the illegal trades that was part of the conspiracy charge and was highlighted in the article — trading in shares of Marvell Technology — took place weeks before they joined SAC. Because of an editing error, a on Tuesday with an article about protests in Cairo against an Islamist-backed draft constitution strongly supported by Egypt’s president, Mohamed Morsi, misidentified the site of one protest where a demonstrator was shown being hoisted aloft by the crowd. That gathering was outside the presidential palace, not in Tahrir Square. (As the caption correctly noted, another picture showing mostly women protesting was taken in the square.) An on Tuesday about the death of a subway rider, using information from the Police Department, misidentified, in some editions, the train that struck him when he was pushed onto the tracks. It was a Q train, not an R train. The error was repeated in an accompanying picture caption. And because of an editing error, the article also misidentified, in some editions, the source of a video in which the attacker is heard and shown cursing at the victim. The video, which was released by the police, was taken on the platform by a passenger on her phone; it was not a surveillance video. An in the Square Feet pages on Wednesday about the sale of Archstone Enterprise misstated an estimate for the rate of growth in the net operating income of the publicly traded apartment sector that was attributed to Alexander Goldfarb, a managing director at Sandler O’Neill & Partners. He said it is on pace to be 7 to 9 percent for 2012, not 6 percent. (It is expected to slow to 6 percent in 2013.) • An on Thursday about a new computer threat called ransomware constructed incorrectly a hypothetical Web address incorporating a subdomain. The address would be blog.nameofsite.com, not nameofsite.blog.com. (Subdomain names precede the domain name; they do not follow it.) An on Saturday about Maria Lema, the recipient of a grant from an organization supported by The Times’s Neediest Cases Fund, misstated the college she attends. It is Buffalo State College, not SUNY Buffalo.  