ransomware12.txt
On this week’s New York Tech Talk podcast, Bettina Edelstein speaks with Ramesh Raskar, an M.I.T. Media Lab associate professor, about a system he and his students developed that uses a cellphone screen, a small plastic device and software to test vision and calculate eyeglass prescriptions. According to Dr. Raskar, the results are as reliable as a more conventional method of testing eyesight. The system, called the Near-Eye Tool for Refractive Assessment, is inexpensive to produce and use, and because cellphones are so widespread it has the potential to help millions of people around the world with impaired vision, Dr. Raskar says. There’s a new push to educate consumers about safety online. J.D. Biersdorfer gets the details from Peter Cassidy, the secretary general of the Anti-Phishing Working Group, and David Perry, global director of education for the security firm Trend Micro. They say it’s time for government and industry to promote a unified message about the importance of what they call “information hygiene.” While many people are concerned about the security of their information, they point out, there’s also a lot of confusion about Internet dangers. One of the evils you may encounter on the Internet is something called “ransomware.” Pedro Rafael Rosado explains what it is and how this sort of scam works. Hijackers who take over computer systems demand payment to relinquish control. And for some people, Mr. Rosado points out, shame is a strong incentive to pay up. Ms. Biersdorfer’s roundup of tech news includes a YouTube hack targeting Justin Bieber; more streaming movies from Netflix; an Android tablet from Cisco; Microsoft’s abandonment of its Kin line of phones aimed at young people; and Apple’s latest iPhone 4 trouble, this time involving erroneous signal strength bars. Ms. Biersdorfer’s tech tip of the week is about browser add-ons to help you filter obnoxious and unsavory comments on YouTube. To find more information about the podcast and the links to the show’s topics, go to the For help finding particular segments of the show, use these time codes: Tech Tip – 33:40 News – 32:17 MIT/NETRA – 21:27 Tech Term – 12:57 Anti-Phishing Workgroup – 07:36 