ransomware11.txt
Thousands of names, phone numbers, and e-mail addresses stored by the Internet job-search site Monster.com have been stolen as part of a complex online fraud scheme. Symantec, a security company, disclosed the breach over the weekend after one of its researchers found that a server computer in Ukraine held 1.6 million records stolen from Monster, a New York company. Not every stolen record included personal data, but Dave Cole, director of Symantec's security response team, estimated that the thieves had obtained names and addresses of hundreds of thousands of people. Symantec notified Monster of the theft, and the company promised quick action. "We are investigating the reports," said Patrick Manzo, vice president for compliance and fraud prevention, "and will take all necessary steps to mitigate the issue, including terminating any account used for illegitimate purposes." The stolen information does not include the most sensitive personal data, like bank account, credit card or Social Security numbers. Résumés posted on Monster do not contain such information, which could easily be used to commit identity fraud. Instead, it appears the criminals were after the e-mail addresses found on many résumés. People who have filed résumés receive "phishing" e-mails that appear to come from Monster, urging the recipient to install a piece of job-search software. The software actually installs one of two dangerous programs. Some victims receive a "key-logger" program that secretly records passwords typed by the victim during visits to online banking sites. Passwords could then be relayed to thieves, letting them clean out the victims' accounts. Other victims get a "ransomware" program, which locks vital files so the user cannot access them. The user then gets an e-mail message demanding a $150 payment for a key to unlock the files. Cole said thieves got access to the Monster résumés by seeding the Internet with a "Trojan horse" program that runs secretly on thousands of computers. This program logs onto Monster, using a legitimate password belonging to an employer who uses Monster to find job candidates. Such a password provides access to millions of résumés. The Trojan horse software collected data from many résumés, and relayed them to the Ukrainian computer. 