Advanced Persistent Threat16.txt
The final hours of the presidential campaign are playing out before an almost evenly divided electorate. Most voters may feel settled in their choice of Vice President Al Gore or Gov. George W. Bush. But the small proportion of the electorate that remains wary, uncertain, alienated and even confused will determine the outcome. These swing voters break into three groups, starting with the truly undecided who are still studying the candidates and the issues. Then there are the persuadable leaners, who are inclined toward a particular candidate but not firmly resolved to vote for him. Finally -- and most important for Mr. Gore's chance of being president -- there are the supporters of Ralph Nader who must decide whether their cause is truly advanced by throwing the election to Mr. Bush. The numbers and impact of these late deciders can be sizable. In the 1996 presidential race, exit polls showed that 11 percent of voters made up their minds in the last three days of the campaign. In 1992, it was 16 percent. Such late shifts have produced several recent surprises, mostly in Congressional results. In 1994, few predicted the Republican sweep led by Newt Gingrich in the House. In 1998, during the impeachment ordeal, most experts failed to foresee the strong gains made by the Democrats. In 2000, the stage is set for late deciders to determine the victor. Following are our arguments why each of the three groups should go for Mr. Gore. The Truly Undecided. The polls show that many of these voters are torn between what they see as the attractive personality of Mr. Bush and the issues championed by Mr. Gore. On taxes, education, health care, Social Security, the environment and a range of social issues from gun control to abortion, enlightened self-interest should carry these voters to Mr. Gore. His more muscular use of the federal government will help working families meet their needs and secure their futures. In the health area, Mr. Gore would channel more generous financing to shore up Medicare, keep premiums low and provide prescription drug coverage. He would spend more money than Mr. Bush to help schools hire teachers, lower class size and enforce standards. Mr. Bush has spoken passionately about wanting to make gains in these areas as president. He cannot do so, however, without putting up sufficient resources, and through his own use of ''fuzzy math,'' he has put those resources into a lockbox for the wealthy. His proposed tax cut would cost nearly $2 trillion when measured over 10 years and would leave almost nothing in the federal budget for other needs. True, those undecided voters out there who are making more than $300,000 a year and want to vote their own short-term benefit should go for Mr. Bush. Less affluent undecideds should think about Mr. Bush's antagonism toward using federal resources to attack social problems. His anti-government statements are out of sync with the public. The Pew Research Center found last week that 54 percent of Americans view the federal government favorably and rate it as more trustworthy than pharmaceutical companies, oil companies and health-maintenance organizations. Nor are voters ready to privatize a portion of Social Security, draining off $1 trillion over the next 10 years that otherwise would be available to pay down the debt and secure retirement payments. Some undecided voters may think that Mr. Bush would never install the damaging policies he talks about. But that is a dangerous assumption. He is philosophically committed to positions that would seriously restrict a woman's right to have an abortion, erode gun control and stall hate crimes legislation. Mr. Bush also wants to limit the government's ability to clean up the air and prevent drilling and mining in wilderness areas. An undecided voter who comes down for Mr. Bush this weekend is voting for a tax windfall for the rich and for new limits on the federal government's ability to address pressing national problems. The Nader Voters: Ralph Nader seems at this point to be beyond the reach of reason, but there is still time for his voters to consider whether they want to be enablers for a political narcissist. Even the well-intended environmentalists who want to see the Green Party reach the 5 percent threshold ought to realize that this is not the year for tactical voting. A vote for Mr. Nader is a vote to defeat, in the person of Al Gore, the best-informed and most committed environmentalist to run for president since Theodore Roosevelt. Green Party voters in swing states need to understand that they are, in effect, voting for Mr. Bush's proposals to treat polluting industries more gently. They also have to face the fact that the Nader candidacy represents a direct threat to a woman's reproductive freedom. Mr. Nader's argument that a Supreme Court dominated by Bush appointees would make no real difference for abortion rights is delusional. But Mr. Nader's zeal has put him beyond such concerns. As Jacob Weisberg explained in Slate, the online magazine, last week, the arguments about the damage Mr. Nader is causing have only emboldened him in his cause, which is to elect Mr. Bush precisely because he is more threatening to liberal values than Mr. Gore. The idea is to elect someone whose policies will be so outrageous they will galvanize the left wing of the Democratic Party. Advocating defeat for your own cause in an election in order to come back stronger in the long run has a long, muddled tradition. The era of Richard Nixon was ushered in partly by sullen liberals who wanted to punish Hubert Humphrey in 1968. It is an act of supreme arrogance for Mr. Nader to consign the country to bad policies for some imagined ideological payoff down the road. Our advice to Green Party voters confronted with Mr. Nader's effort to elect Mr. Bush is to just say no. Bush-Leaning Persuadables: Our guess is that this group of voters includes people willing to overlook issue differences with Mr. Bush because of his generalized promises of ''leadership'' and perhaps because of Clinton fatigue as well. Mr. Bush's persistent high standing in the polls is a tribute to the effectiveness of his campaign and the appeal of his high-toned message about bringing the country together, ending the partisan bickering in Washington and restoring ''honor and dignity'' to the White House. But we would urge voters drawn to such promises to consider the thinness of Mr. Bush's resume and what the leadership structure of Mr. Bush's capital would really look like. It is not possible to tell whether Mr. Bush's image as a leader was damaged by disclosures that he was arrested and fined for drunken driving more than 24 years ago. There is also a dispute over how he answered interviewers' questions about his past. But many voters will sympathize with his desire to keep his arrest secret to protect his children. If the known facts contain the full story, this should not in our view be regarded as a big campaign issue. But the disclosure does remind us of how little the nation really knows about Mr. Bush and what a short record of private achievement and public service he has in comparison with his opponent. In previous editorials, we have stated our misgivings about the Texas governor's lack of interest in public policy and his lack of experience in foreign affairs. Now we would like to look more closely at what is presumably a key attraction of his leadership pitch. That is the promise to bring a new era of comity and accomplishment to Washington. We doubt Mr. Bush could do that, given the likelihood that the Republicans will retain control of the Senate. After all, Trent Lott would remain majority leader. With Mr. Bush in the White House, Mr. Lott would also become more powerful than ever. With all respect for Mr. Bush's charm, it is no match for Mr. Lott's proven desire to do constant battle with the Democrats for a harsh conservative agenda. With Mr. Bush in the White House, Mr. Lott and Republicans like Dick Armey and Tom DeLay in the House would listen politely to his speeches about bickering and then run over him. Mr. Gore, by contrast, could control the G.O.P. bullies. He understands that presidential leadership sometimes requires a taste for confrontation, for fighting for the right values, and a willingness to go over the heads of the Congress to persuade the public. Voters yearning for an end to squabbling in Washington should not conclude that everyone can be friends all the time. Mr. Gore may not be as easy-listening as Mr. Bush on his best days, but he has the values and experience to deliver a leadership that puts substance ahead of style. 