Advanced Persistent Threat11.txt
What began with the French fans on Center Court performing a wave and cheering on Amelie Mauresmo ended with them holding up umbrellas to keep away the persistent drizzle as Mauresmo buried her head in a towel in defeat. Fortune has not often been Monica Seles's friend in recent years, but she arrived at this French Open in a fine frame of mind and respectable shape. On Sunday, she successfully cleared the first significant hurdle blocking her path to another Grand Slam title by defeating the talented but inconsistent Mauresmo, 7-5, 6-3, in the fourth round. "The crowd was so amazing; I felt like I was playing a soccer match," Seles said. The crowd will be loud again on Tuesday, when Seles faces another Frenchwoman, Mary Pierce, in the quarterfinals. Pierce advanced by dominating Asa Carlsson of Sweden, 6-4, 6-0, and like Seles, she has yet to lose a set in this tournament. "I'm playing better and better each match," said the sixth-seeded Pierce, who was dominant on clay earlier in the season but struggled in her final two events before Roland Garros. "I'm starting to have the same feelings I had in Hilton Head when I won that tournament. I watched tapes of it, and I tried to concentrate on that, to have the same state of mind." The other women's quarterfinals, to be played on Tuesday, will match the No. 1 seed, Martina Hingis, against Chanda Rubin; No. 4 Venus Williams against No. 8 Arantxa Sanchez Vicario; and No. 5 Conchita Martinez against Marta Marrero, a 17-year-old who, like Martinez and Sanchez Vicario, hails from Spain. There have been many fine years for their clay-loving country at Roland Garros in the last decade, and this year is on its way to becoming another. Along with the three Spanish women in the quarterfinals, two Spanish men also reached the final eight on Sunday. There could even be a third after Albert Costa finishes with Lleyton Hewitt on Monday. Alex Corretja, the No. 10 seed, advanced by defeating a Swiss teenager, Roger Federer, no clay-court master (yet), in straight sets. Not long after that, Corretja's Davis Cup teammate, Juan Carlos Ferrero, the No. 16 seed, eliminated Mark Philippoussis of Australia, 6-2, 6-2, 3-6, 6-3. At 20, the angular Ferrero projects an eerie calm on and off the court, which makes it easy to forget that this is his first French Open. Other young men might be shaking their head in wonder of it all. Not Ferrero. But then, how many players are seeded in their first Roland Garros? It's as if he knows he belongs, and his ability to read the flight of the ball early, along with marvelous footwork and an excellent forehand, make it clear that he does. A year ago, Ferrero was watching this tournament on television between his matches and practices at a challenger event in Germany. But by the end of the season, he had won a main tour event in Majorca and broken into the top 50. Now he is a legitimate threat to win the title, one of the three most successful players under 21 on tour along with Hewitt and Marat Safin. He and Safin, who will face Cedric Pioline in the fourth round on Monday, come from different countries — Safin is a Russian — but they spent the bulk of their late teens training and competing together in Valencia, where Safin moved at age 14 to find better practice conditions than Moscow could afford him. The vast majority of the top Spanish players are based in Barcelona, but Ferrero and his longtime coach, Antonio Martinez, chose to follow their own path. "A year ago, I was watching this tournament on television, and now I'm in the quarterfinals, so, of course, it's a dream," Ferrero conceded Sunday. "I hope it lasts a week longer." For it to continue, he must beat Corretja on Tuesday. The other men's quarterfinal in the bottom half of the draw will match Yevgeni Kafelnikov, the No. 4 seed, against Gustavo Kuerten, the No. 5 seed and the most consistently successful clay-court player this season. Kafelnikov, the Russian who won this tournament in 1996, likes to remind his audience that he is a "second week" player. But he very nearly didn't get the chance to play in the second week this year. Facing yet another Spaniard, Fernando Vicente, he required five sets and some shaky shotmaking in the clutch from his opponent to win by a score that takes almost as long to read as it did to watch: 5-7, 6-3, 5-7, 7-6 (7-4), 8-6. "Everybody knows I'm a real slow starter, I need thirty minutes just to get into a match," Kafelnikov said. "In Grand Slam tennis I can do that." Kuerten has been starting and finishing fast thus far, and on Sunday, he eliminated the dangerous Nicolas Lapentti. Kuerten's biggest concern thus far in this tournament has been the state of his chronically sore back, but he showed no sign of weakness against his fellow South American, winning 6-3, 6-4, 7-6 (7-4). 