Advanced Persistent Threat12.txt
and American intelligence agencies have told the Clinton administration and Congress that China has continued to aid Pakistan's effort to build long-range missiles that could carry nuclear weapons, according to several officials with access to the intelligence reports. The revelations are complicating President Clinton's effort to win quick Senate passage of a bill establishing normal trade relations with China. In a series of classified briefings on Capitol Hill, most recently on Thursday, the agencies have described how China stepped up the shipment of specialty steels, guidance systems and technical expertise to Pakistan, China's longtime strategic ally, after India and Pakistan set off rival nuclear tests in 1998. Chinese experts have also been sighted around Pakistan's newest missile factory, which appears to be partly based on a Chinese design, and shipments to Pakistan have been continued over the past 8 to 18 months, several of the officials said. On Tuesday, the administration is sending a large delegation to Beijing to raise the issue in detail, the first high-level negotiations over missile exports since November 1998. The delegation will be headed by John Holum, senior adviser to Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright for arms control, and will include several other high-ranking officials. The talks were suspended for more than a year after the accidental American bombing of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade. A senior American general this week called the arming of Pakistan ''a longer-range issue'' that persists despite assurances from President Jiang Zemin of China to President Clinton two years ago that Beijing would review its aid to the country. But the ties between China's military and Pakistan run deep -- both consider India their greatest threat -- and the general said ''part of the issue is, we're not sure how much is going on that the Chinese hierarchy knows about.'' Clinton administration officials, trying to head off action by Congress that could place new sanctions on China, say they have been encouraged that China has greatly reduced its weapons exports to the Middle East. The White House has argued for several years that the Chinese have abided by agreements to halt exports of nuclear and chemical weapons to Iran, North Korea and other nations that the United States considers a strategic concern. But the continuing exports of missile parts and technology to Pakistan are creating a raft of political problems, much as they did during the last presidential election, when Mr. Clinton decided in May 1996 not to punish China for the sale of $70,000 in equipment that helped Pakistan produce weapons-grade uranium. The latest revelations appear to be contributing to the reluctance of the Senate leadership to schedule a vote on permanent normal trading relations with China, a bill which already passed in the House. Moreover, the administration fears that in order to win passage of the trade bill, it may have to accept a bill constraining China's exports of missile technology. Sponsored by Senators Fred Thompson, a Tennessee Republican, and Robert G. Torricelli, a New Jersey Democrat, the bill would require the administration to monitor China's record on the spread of nuclear weapons. It would also impose automatic sanctions on companies or states if there is ''credible evidence'' of certain exports -- even though China has never signed the Missile Technology Control Regime, a voluntary accord to limit sales of missile technology. Mr. Clinton would have the discretion to waive some of the penalties, but others would be automatic. The bill only focuses on China, even though North Korea and other countries are believed by American intelligence agencies to be shipping full missile systems to Pakistan. Last month the administration lifted 50-year-old sanctions against North Korea, and there was no discussion even from conservatives in Congress about North Korea's aid to Pakistan. It is possible that both Senator Thompson's measure and the trade bill could pass, but supporters of the trade measure fear Beijing's reaction if the tough sanctions legislation is passed. Senator Chuck Hagel, a Nebraska Republican on the Foreign Relations Committee who opposes the Thompson-Torricelli legislation, said in an interview this week that both that bill and the new intelligence could greatly complicate or even imperil passage of normal trade relations with China. The House has already approved the change in China's trading status -- part of the drive to make China a member of the World Trade Organization by the end of the year -- but any changes in the Senate version could send the legislation back to the House. ''If the Thompson bill passes, you might embolden people who do not want P.N.T.R. to go forward,'' Mr. Hagel said, using the shorthand for permanent normal trade relations. ''It so complicates the issue that P.N.T.R. could fall as a result of its own weight. There are those in the Senate who wish that to happen.'' The argument over the sanctions bill culminates seven years of struggle between the White House and Congress over which one will manage relations with China. Critics of the administration's China policy, both Democrats and Republicans, argue that the White House has ignored a pattern of Chinese exports in order to avoid imposing sanctions that existing law requires. They argue that in the name of preserving a broader relationship with China, the Clinton administration is always leaping through loopholes in the sanctions laws. The White House, in response, says that Congress confuses sanctions with a workable policy on trying to slow the spread of advanced weapons, and notes that the Thompson bill sets stricter requirements for Chinese behavior than international agreements do. The dispute goes to the core of one of Mr. Clinton's major arguments in favor of normalizing trade relations with China: That a China more economically entwined with the rest of the world will become more cooperative on issues like stopping the spread of weapons. ''They know that divisions with the West on these nonproliferation issues could ultimately be bad for business,'' one senior American diplomat said. ''But Pakistan is a particularly difficult issue that runs up against their strategic relationship, and their rivalry with India,'' the official added. The resumption of aid to Pakistan, the official said, coincided with the tit-for-tat nuclear tests India and Pakistan set off in 1998, which the official said ''fundamentally changed the strategic landscape.'' One Congressional official familiar with the intelligence said that the Pakistanis ''went to the Chinese and said, 'We know you have this agreement with the Americans, but we really need your help.' '' Since then, American intelligence agencies have detected a persistent flow of aid to Pakistan. Twice in the past decade Washington has imposed sanctions on Beijing for its aid to Pakistan, once in 1991 and again in 1993. In 1994, to resolve the issue, China agreed to comply with the main provisions of the Missile Technology Control Regime and said it would no longer sell full M-11 missiles to Pakistan. But the Chinese are not signatories to the agreement, and the accord with the administration did not cover components and technology listed in an important annex to the missile accord. 