Advanced Persistent Threat15.txt
THE WARSHIP EXPLOSION: MILITARY ANALYSIS The explosion that ripped apart the destroyer Cole was more than just another terrorist attack. It achieved a new degree of sophistication. The United States is an unrivaled military superpower, with its precision guided weapons, well-trained troops and global reach. So instead of fighting the Pentagon on its own terms, the nation's enemies have been looking for its Achilles' heel. Harbor boats and truck bombs, not intercontinental-range missiles, are the new weapons of war. And the targets are overseas military compounds and the vast and often vulnerable logistics that are needed to keep the American military going. As the explosion in Yemen showed, the attacks are being carried out with growing savvy. The aim is to cause the maximum number of casualties, produce a series of dramatic images on the television news and undercut American public support for overseas troop deployments. Pentagon officials dub the low-tech threat to the high-tech military ''asymmetric warfare.'' And the best and the brightest in the military concede that there is no easy answer. ''We are so powerful and have such good equipment that our enemies see that they have to use asymmetric methods,'' said Gen. Richard Neal, a key official during the Persian Gulf war. ''But there is no magic bullet to solve the asymmetric method.'' Certainly, terrorist attacks are not a new phenomenon. A suicide bomber drove a car full of explosives into a Marine barracks in Beirut in 1983, killing 241 American troops. In 1996 a truck bomb attack at the Khobar Towers housing complex near Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, killed 19 United States servicemen. The next year, the American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania were bombed, killing 224, of whom 12 were American. Still, the attack on the Cole crossed a new threshold in several respects. It was the first time that a modern American Navy ship had been the target of a successful terrorist attack. The attack also reflected a detailed understanding of American military operations. This was not a simple matter of crashing a truck bomb through a barricade. The terrorist group that attacked the Cole had advance knowledge of the ship's refueling stop in Aden and an intimate understanding of the refueling procedures. The group thoroughly penetrated the harbor security and the port refueling operation. And it prepared the explosive device to direct the force of the blast against the hull of the vessel. ''The bombing of the U.S. embassies in Africa and Khobar Towers were indirect types of attacks,'' General Neal said. ''This attack was a direct attack against a piece of U.S. war-fighting equipment. It really stands out.'' The destroyer Cole certainly was an inviting target. The length of a football field, it is equipped with a powerful radar system, long-range cruise missiles and air defense weapons. The vessel was designed during the cold war to protect aircraft carriers and Navy battle groups against enemy air and missile attack and thus maintain American dominance of the seas. But it proved to be a poor match against a single explosive-laden harbor boat. Adm. Stanley Arthur, the commander of the Navy forces during the Gulf war, noted that the Navy routinely trained to deal with small-boat attacks. But by infiltrating the Yemeni contractor that provided refueling services to the Cole, the terrorists caught the ship off guard. ''We were always worried about small-boat attacks,'' Admiral Arthur recalled. ''We had .25-caliber weapons on the deck and had rapid-fire weapons mounted on tripods. For what happened to the Cole appeared to be pretty well staged. They made it look like it was all routine. It was pretty clever.'' Defense Secretary William S. Cohen has described the new threat as part of the paradox of being a superpower. ''This is precisely the kinds of threat that we face where countries are unwilling to take us on head to head but will resort to acts of terrorism in order to achieve their goal,'' he said soon after the Cole was attacked. Despite palpable concern in the Pentagon, the growing threat has barely rated a mention in the presidential debate over military policy, probably since there are no obvious, eye-catching solutions. Gov. George W. Bush has touted the need for a technologically advanced missile defense of the United States and proposed that billions be spent for research on reconnaissance and targeting systems that would enable the United States to pummel enemy armies from afar. But those steps would not insolate the American military from low-tech terrorist strike. Vice President Al Gore has asserted a need for the ''forward engagement' of American forces in distant trouble spots without specifying ways to reduce the risk of that engagement. To a certain extent, terrorist attack is an unavoidable risk. And retaliation is not always the answer, since the culprits are often hard to identify and find. Hunkering down can also be a mistake. The terrorists' aim is to confront the United States with such a costly setback that it will withdraw its forces, a move that would diminish American influence in the Persian Gulf and other distant regions. ''You can get into a point where you are suspicious of everything and get into a bunker mentality,'' Admiral Arthur said. ''Our nature is not quite built around that.'' But while the risk of terrorist attacks cannot be eliminated, it can be reduced. Better intelligence, especially from agents close to terrorist groups, is essential, though difficult. And the already tight security procedures can be strengthened. As the case of the Cole shows, this not only involves American procedures, but those of the foreign governments and contractors the United States is working with. Even if new precautions are taken, Gen. Wesley K. Clark, who was the commander of NATO forces during the war in Kosovo, said the new style of attacks was likely to be a persistent worry. ''They involve the use of dramatic events to enable a militarily weaker power to attack a stronger power,'' he said. ''It is going to be a continuing problem.'' 