Advanced Persistent Threat18.txt
Thirty-seven years of conflict has left Colombia with two million displaced villagers. In some cities, urban warfare rages between rebels and right-wing militia members. Farms lie fallow. The economy suffers. But not in Bogotá, the fog-shrouded capital 8,000 feet atop the Andes. In this city of seven million, many Bogotanos agree, things have never been better. A drop in crime has left the city not only statistically safer than Caracas and Rio de Janeiro, but also more secure than Washington and Baltimore. The economy, although sluggish, is considered Colombia's sole reliable engine for creating jobs. The city's credit rating by Duff & Phelps rose, to AA+ last year from A in 1994. More visibly, a three-year multibillion capital improvement program has changed the landscape, refurbishing 877 parks, paving 117 miles of roads, introducing sewage treatment to 415 neighborhoods and building 22 schools and 21 libraries. The symbol of the city's transformation has been its new Transmilenio bus system, which uses specially constructed bus lanes and subwaylike platforms. ''Incredible, but now this city has possibilities,'' Edgar Saënz, 30, a designer, said, waiting for a bus. ''We can walk downtown without fear, in a pleasant urban landscape. I think the capital is an example for the whole country.'' In the early 1990's, Bogotá was a basket case. Traffic made short trips grueling. Crime was increasing out of control. Refugees were streaming in. Development was hamstrung by corruption. Then an unexpected renewal began. Much of the credit, residents and experts on the city say, goes to Enrique Peñalosa, a student of urban development who served as mayor from 1998 until January. Many Bogotanos, used to the city's ''despelote,'' Colombia's controlled chaos, called the effort quixotic. ''This was a city people had spent years hating,'' Mr. Peñalosa said this summer from New York, where he is on a fellowship at New York University. ''They talked badly of it and said it would never get better. But now there is a big change. People feel proud of their city. They believe it can get better.'' The transformation is being watched by other Latin American cities suffering pollution, congestion and crime. Behind the changes lies a simple premise familiar to New Yorkers. Can-do mayors take office proposing improvements that residents of more livable cities take for granted: that traffic can be controlled, that mass transit can work and that crime can drop. Mayor Antanus Mockus, a son of Lithuanian immigrants who preceded and succeeded Mr. Peñalosa as mayor, began changing the stubborn, me-first mentality here. A seat belt law took effect. He unclogged roads, banned parking on sidewalks and initiated antilitter campaigns. Mr. Mockus, a former professor known for his zany antics and Abe Lincoln beard, did away with the corrupt transit police force and raised money by selling off the city's once inefficient energy company. The progress has not eliminated some serious problems. The crime rate, although far lower than in the mid-90's, remains a persistent threat. A housing shortage is becoming more acute with the annual arrival of 160,000 new inhabitants, many of them displaced by the grinding civil conflict here. Bogotanos, much like New Yorkers, know that the relative calm can be shattered by terrorist attacks. Indeed, the State Department continues to warn Americans against traveling here, a designation that rankles local officials. The quality of life here began to change with Mr. Mockus. Cars were restricted in peak hours, to cut down on pollution and traffic. Bars were closed at 1 a.m., to keep drunken drivers off roads. Gun control became a mission. Then came Mr. Peñalosa with his big projects. About 70 miles of bicycle routes were built through parks and along sidewalks. Then came the bus system intended to replace the wheezing, aging clunkers that made driving a nightmare. The national police force also modernized its operations. Homicides dropped to 2,238 last year from 4,396 in 1993, leaving Bogotá with 35 homicides per 100,0000 people, a rate lower than that of some American cities, but still far higher than New York's, which is a larger city but recorded 673 killings in 2000. Mr. Peñalosa, on the other hand, focused much of his attention on the poorer neighborhoods, having schools built and water and sewer lines installed. ''Peñalosa understood that modern cities need to make up for the precarious situation in some areas, to make available access to public services of high quality,'' said Juan Carlos del Castillo, a professor of urbanism at the National University here. ''What this means is that Bogotá has advanced, while the rest of the cities have not.'' Through the changes, Bogotá has maintained its charms, the whispers of its tumultuous past evident in neighborhoods like the colonial Candelaria and in the tightly packed downtown, with its worn but elegant buildings. It sits in a haunting, startling setting, on top of an emerald savannah and flanked by dark, craggy mountains. It is a city with neighborhoods of stately brick Tudor houses, odd to outsiders, but apt for residents who know the climate here is more like London's than Miami's. Yet on a summer walk through neighborhoods in the marginalized southern part of the city, residents said the investment had improved their lives. Heberto Acero, 58, a security guard, said his neighborhood was electrified and had telephone service and drinkable water. ''When I came here,'' he said, ''we had to buy our water from tanker trucks that came through every four days.'' 