Advanced Persistent Threat25.txt
RSA, the computer security unit of that was hacked, has named Edward Schwartz as chief security officer, promoting him from the same role at NetWitness, a firm it recently acquired. Chief security officers are typically in charge of an organization’s security, both physical and digital. As such, it appears it will be Mr. Schwartz’s job to make sure RSA, which companies entrust for their computer security, does not again fall victim to hackers.  webonly {margin:0px;} .tweet{margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:12px;} .bbpBox{background:url(//a2.twimg.com/profile_background_images/158228813/twilk_background_4cabc981ea8da.jpg) #9ae4e8;padding:20px;}  RT : Good luck to Only job more public and challenging at the moment would be CSO of Sony <– I am UP for it! Thanks!    end of tweet  RSA’s computer systems were breached in March and sensitive information was stolen about its flagship SecurID product, a system that is used by millions of companies to provide employees and customers with secure access to their own networks through one-time passcodes, which typically display on a keychain token or card. After playing down the danger to its customers for more than a month, RSA said this week that the hack appeared to have been part of an effort to infiltrate military companies and that was successfully attacked in May. It offered to replace most of its customers’ devices. Mr. Schwartz is well respected and liked in the security field, and possesses an expertise in intrusions that will be valuable to RSA and its customers at a time of increasingly aggressive and sophisticated hacker attacks, said Ed Skoudis, an instructor at the SANS Institute, an organization for security professionals, who formerly worked for Mr. Schwartz. NetWitness, whose tools are designed to detect malicious attacks and data leaks, was credited with spotting the break-in at RSA. Soon after the incident, RSA went from customer to owner. It acquired the firm on April 1 for an undisclosed sum in a deal had been already been in the works. Mr. Schwartz appears to be RSA’s first chief security officer. However, EMC does have a security executive who oversees the entire company, Dave Martin, who has been chief security officer since January 2010 and joined the company in 2004. Mr. Schwartz confirmed his promotion in several Wednesday, and said he was ready for what will undoubtedly be a high-pressure job. RSA declined to comment on his role, citing a policy against discussing personnel matters. The hacking incident has darkened RSA’s reputation. Customers and security professionals have been about its tightlipped response to the attack, which many have said compromised their ability to properly defend themselves. Mr. Schwartz has presented regularly at security industry events on how to cope with so-called advanced persistent threats, stealthy targeted attacks of the type RSA says it suffered. Prior to NetWitness, Mr. Schwartz held executive positions at several other security companies, most recently chief technology officer at ManTech Security Technologies, a unit of , which serves defense and intelligence agencies and spun out NetWitness in 2006. He also worked for the security firms Guardent and Predictive Systems, was chief information security officer at Nationwide Insurance, and served as a foreign service officer for the Department of State. 