And we'll keep you signed in. You need one to watch live TV on any channel or device, and BBC programmes on iPlayer. It’s the law. Gill Sennett All times stated are UK Gill Sennett BBC Radio Humberside I'll be back tomorrow from 08:00 with all the latest news, sport, weather and travel. In the meantime, here are five things we didn't know when we got up this morning: Gill Sennett BBC Radio Humberside East Yorkshire's offshore wind industry is "delivering massive industrial benefits to the rest of the country" according to the trade body for the renewable industry. says the Hornsea Project One will be the largest wind farm in the world when completed, capable of powering over one million homes. The offshore wind industry is bringing well over £20 billion in investment to Britain over the course of this decade, creating thousands of jobs across the UK." Gill Sennett BBC Radio Humberside A series of classical music concerts featuring some of Britain's leading orchestras will take place across the East Riding next year. The Royal Philharmonic and the Manchester Camerata are among those who will play in Pocklington, Bridlington, Beverley and Withernsea. It's part of the City of Culture programme for 2017. BBC Humberside Sport Hull Kingston Rovers have formally been granted permission by Hull City Council to place a in the North Stand at the Lightstream Stadium. The Robins commissioned local sculptor Steve Winterburn to build a memorial in his honour after the hooker's death in 2007. He earned 14 caps for Great Britain and is thought to have been one of the club's greatest-ever players. Lara King North East Lincolnshire reporter The MP for Cleethorpes says a loophole in the Equality Act is being used by schools "to discriminate against children with autism". Speaking in the House of Commons Martin Vickers said schools were using the rules to exclude children with challenging behaviour linked to their condition which the current act makes no allowance for. He wants to bring in a Bill to , school admissions and support for special educational needs especially children with autism. BBC Humberside Sport Lara King North East Lincolnshire reporter Hospital managers in Scunthorpe, Grimsby and Goole have told us some appointments will go ahead tomorrow, but most will remain cancelled. Planned operations have been cancelled at all three hospitals because IT systems have been hit by a virus. Accident and emergency departments are partly open. Antenatal, paediatrics and chemotherapy appointments will go ahead as normal but Northern Lincolnshire and Goole NHS Foundation Trust has told us any other speciality or surgery is cancelled unless patients hear from their hospital. Audiology measurements, community and therapy and gynaecology will also be running as normal tomorrow. BBC Humberside Sport It's another blow for Hull City and Mike Phelan as official confirmation comes that goalkeeping coach Gary Walsh (pictured) has . He had been linked with a move to the West Midlands since former City boss Steve Bruce took over as manager. There will be more on this story in . Gill Sennett BBC Radio Humberside A woman has been after trying to help a man in Hull. The 26-year-old victim was with her mother and two children when she went to intervene as a group of teenagers threatened a man of Indian origin. She was attacked by a girl who was part of the group during the incident on Londesborough Street last month. Police want to speak to the man she tried to help. Clare Crooks BBC Radio Humberside An investigation is under way after a number of handguns were found at a house in Scunthorpe. Police say the guns are blanks and BB guns and were found at an address in High Santon yesterday afternoon. The weapons have now been destroyed. BBC Humberside Sport Gill Sennett BBC Radio Humberside BBC Humberside Sport Grimsby Town will interview Solihull Moors boss Marcus Bignot (pictured) for the vacant managerial position this week. He's one of the names confirmed on The Mariners' shortlist. Meanwhile, the club are reporting a trading profit of £59,062 in the latest financial accounts for the period ending 31 May 2016. Natalie Glanvill Reporter BBC Radio Humberside Libraries in East Yorkshire will stay open but their hours will be reduced. East Riding of Yorkshire Council has agreed to keep a library or multi-service centre in every town and larger village. Both of the libraries in Bridlington will stay open. The council has also agreed to keep running the mobile service, but with reduced hours. The changes will save the council £1.2m. Gill Sennett BBC Radio Humberside A couple from Goole have won an . Howard and Julie Duckworth won the Best Rescue of a Heritage Site award for their efforts in bringing empty properties back into use. The husband and wife team, who've spent millions regenerating the Aire Street area of the town, say they just wanted to put Goole on the map. All the buildings were derelict and weeks away from being pulled down... The community has been amazing." BBC Humberside Sport youngster Jordan Abdull (pictured) has been linked with a season-long loan move to . Abdull, who can play in the halves or at loose forward, is likely to make way for Albert Kelly who is expected to join The Black and Whites ahead of their return to pre-season training. Natalie Glanvill Reporter BBC Radio Humberside Four people have been seriously hurt in a head-on crash near Withernsea last night. Their injuries are not life-threatening but they went to hospital for treatment. The accident happened on the B1362 at Rimswell shortly before 20:00 GMT and involved a blue Vauxhall Corsa and Red Honda Jazz. Police are appealing for information. BBC Humberside Sport Chris Arundel BBC Radio Humberside It's being claimed that 20% of Britain's pig producers will go bust unless they are able to use EU workers in future. That's according to the National Pig Association (NPA) which has a large number of members in our region. The association has based the conclusion on a survey of members. Ministers have suggested new migrant work schemes could be created in the future, but the NPA says it wants to use foreign workers who live and work here permanently. Lizzie Rose BBC Radio Humberside We've been talking about Monopoly this morning. A new Monopoly board will be launched to celebrate Hull City of Culture. This time, the makers of the game are asking people to help create the playing pieces. Here's some of your suggestions: 