The Russian firm Kaspersky Lab said the hacking at three European hotels was so sophisticated, . World powers and Iran have been holding talks on the fate of Iran's nuclear programme ahead of a 30 June deadline. Switzerland and Austria have both opened investigations into the hacks. The US, UK, France, Germany, Russia and China are seeking a final agreement to curtail Iran's nuclear programme in exchange for sanctions relief. They fear Iran wants to build a nuclear bomb - something Iran strongly denies. Israel is not a party to the negotiations although it feels particularly threatened by the possibility of a nuclear-armed Iran. In March, the Wall Street Journal that Israel had been spying on the behind-closed-doors talks. At the time, Israel . Kaspersky, and an American security firm, Symantec, believe the so-called Duqu 2.0 software was employed to gather information. The virus infects computers across a network and is difficult to detect. Kaspersky said on Wednesday that but the intrusion had been detected at an early stage. Security experts had previously speculated that Duqu . "The international reports of Israeli involvement in the matter are baseless," said Tzipi Hotovely, Israel's deputy foreign minister. "What is much more important is that we prevent a bad agreement where at the end of the day we find ourselves with an Iranian nuclear umbrella." Karl-Heinz Grundboeck, a spokesman for Austria's interior ministry, told AFP investigations in Vienna were focused on the Palais Coburg hotel, where talks took place in July last year. Switzerland's attorney general has also opened an investigation, although it is not known which Swiss hotels are affected. Police have seized computers in Switzerland. As well as Vienna, negotiations have been held in the Swiss cities of Geneva, Lausanne and Montreux, and in Germany. It comes after all over-50s and those in high-risk groups in the UK have been offered a first dose. Greta Thunberg is on a mission to save the planet.. People who have lived through extraordinary events and how their lives have been changed   