encryption99.txt
A senior government official  and the Sun that the phone calls to the European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen were "pretty spicy".The Mail on Sunday  were drawn up to airlift vaccination doses out of the EU following the short-lived decision to introduce export controls on the Northern Ireland border.British and EU vaccine industry bodies  of the dangers of export bans when firms are working collaboratively. Online, the Independent stresses that the UK  with its production crisis. , the vaccines minister, Nadhim Zahawi, says the UK would continue to go out of its way to assist Brussels.The Sunday Times says ministers are considering . The paper says a crackdown on betting firm sponsors could hit football clubs, snooker, darts, boxing and rugby league. A source from one Premier League club suggests the timing is the worst possible with finances hit by the pandemic. But the Times says MPs and campaigners have welcomed the possibility because of concerns about gambling addictions.The Observer claims Facebook  indirectly from pages that share false theories about coronavirus and vaccines. The Bureau of Investigative Journalism is reported to have found 430 such pages. Facebook said many of these did not violate its misinformation rules but it had removed a small number that did. Meanwhile, the Mail reports  that plans by the social media giant to encrypt all messages on Facebook Messenger and Instagram could stop police uncovering terror plots in Britain.Ministers have been told that social distancing may have to stay in place all year, . Scientific modelling suggests that even if vaccines could cut infections by 85%, a lockdown would be needed until the end of May to stop a significant rise in deaths. The research concludes that, if the current restrictions were lifted next month, then by April there would be another large spike in cases.Barbara Windsor's husband, Scott Mitchell,  in the Sunday Mirror over a fall in funding for dementia care. Alzheimer's Research UK says money to fight the condition has halved in the past three years. Mr Mitchell says the government had promised to double funding and he had told his wife, who died last month, that he would do his best for her.Finally, the Daily Star Sunday reports on an MI6 plan to recruit part-time spies - The Star explains that the intelligence agency is trying to appeal to a wider cross-section of society in its latest recruitment drive. A source tells the paper it might appeal to a bored executive of a multinational who wants to spice up their dull life.The BBC News Channel’s press review every evening at 22:40 weekdays, 22:30 and 23:30 weekends and via the BBC iPlayer© 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.  