The accusation follows a report in the New York Times that says they were targeted with spyware meant to be used against criminals and terrorists. The newspaper says messages examined by forensic analysts show the software was used against government critics. A Mexican government spokesman "categorically" denied the allegations. The report says that the software, known as Pegasus, was sold to Mexican federal agencies by Israeli company NSO Group on the condition that it only be used to investigate criminals and terrorists. The software can infiltrate smartphones and monitor calls, texts and other communications, It can also activate a phone's microphone or camera, effectively turning the device into a personal bug. But instead of being used to track suspected criminals, the targets allegedly included investigative journalists, anti-corruption activists and even lawyers. Nine people have now filed a criminal complaint. At a news conference in Mexico City, journalist Carmen Aristegui accused the state of criminal activity. "The agents of the Mexican state, far from doing what they should be doing legally, have used our resources, our taxes, our money to commit serious crimes," she said. A spokesman for President Enrique Peña Nieto rejected the allegations, saying that the government carries out intelligence work against the organised crime and threats to the national security in accordance with the country's laws, but that it does not include journalists or activists. "The government categorically denies that any of its members carries out surveillance or interference in communications of defenders of human rights, journalists, anti-corruption activists or any other person without prior judicial authorization," a spokesman told the BBC. It comes after all over-50s and those in high-risk groups in the UK have been offered a first dose. Greta Thunberg is on a mission to save the planet.. People who have lived through extraordinary events and how their lives have been changed   