encryption11.txt
1/1/00: TECHNOLOGY AND 2000 -- MOMENTOUS RELIEF The new decade arrived well before dawn here today at Peterson Air Force Base, but there was more relief than celebration as the world's 24 time zones began passing from the 20th century without nuclear conflagration. In a collaboration that would have been inconceivable before the cold war ended a decade ago, American and Russian military personnel sat side by side inside an ad hoc Center for Y2K Strategic Stability, where they monitored data that would reflect any ballistic missile activity around the world. As expected, there was none -- at least none that the American and Russian authorities here would discuss. American officials confirmed that the North American Aerospace Defense Command, which is 13 miles from here inside Cheyenne Mountain, had detected launchings of three missiles but said the missiles' inability to travel more than 500 kilometers, or 310 miles, made them irrelevant to operations here. From the American perspective, any moments of real concern had passed by the turn of the year at Greenwich Mean Time, midnight in London. Every American missile system operates on Greenwich Mean Time, which means precise timing is imperative for encryption and other programs around the world. But it also meant that the New Year had passed without incident through all 11 times zones of Russia, as well as through all of Asia, the Middle East and Europe. The center is largely a public relations device, created in September so that each country could reassure the other that any missile launching was unintentional. But nothing the American and Russian personnel monitored here was exclusive to them, anyway, making center operations largely redundant. Rather, they were watching data relayed instantaneously from Cheyenne Mountain, where the monitoring of missile activity around the world by American and Canadian personnel is continuous. Nonetheless, American and Russian officials decided that, for good measure and good will, a special center could provide an added layer of assurance against the possibility of an accidental launching. ''The point of all this is additional insurance, No. 1,'' said Capt. Michael W. Luginbuhl, a naval officer. ''But also, there's the world perception that the two greatest nuclear powers are coordinating and collaborating to go the extra step to make sure nothing goes wrong.'' As far as Russia and the United States were concerned, nothing was ever expected to go wrong. In any case, Captain Luginbuhl said that any launching required so much human intervention that even a ''false indicator'' from a computer would not likely send a missile skyward. But as a further precaution, the center was equipped with direct telephone lines -- to Cheyenne Mountain for the Americans, to Moscow for the Russians -- to question any glitch, real or perceived. By tonight, the only abnormality occurred on Thursday, officials said, when the Russians used their ''red phone'' (which is actually black) to call home and the phone in Moscow did not ring. The problem was fixed momentarily after officers in Moscow discovered their phone had not been turned on. 