encryption14.txt
Data Network to Use Code to Insure Privacy March 21, 1989 Data Network to Use Code to Insure Privacy By VIN McLELLAN fficials of Internet, the computer network that ties together hundreds of academic, government and corporate networks, are planning to begin a program that will permit users to send messages to one another in what is intended to be an unbreakable code. At present, users communicating over the network have little privacy. Sophisticated users can easily intercept and read messages. This lack of security has increasingly worried computer experts as the use of the networks has spread. For many scientists and engineers, the networks have become a mainstay in their communications, used to exchange research results as well as carry on conversations that would otherwise occur over the telephone. Under the new system, not only can an encrypted message be sent but the message will carry concealed information that will leave no doubt for the recipient that the person who says he sent the message did indeed send it. The recipient will also know with certainty that the message has not been altered. Methods of Assurance Developers of the technology say the encryption will provide users with ''digital envelopes'' that cannot be opened except by the addressee, and the contents will have ''digital signatures'' that cannot be forged. The encryption will be offered to 400 computer networks that are tied by the Internet network. The system will be based on one devised by RSA Data Security Inc. of Redwood City, Calif., that uses ''public key encryption'' techniques developed in the late 1970's by federally financed researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. P.K.E., as the encryption technique is known, involves two ''keys,'' one public and one secret. Each user has a secret key and a public one that is published in a directory, just as phone numbers are. Someone uses the recipient's public key to send a message and the recipient uses his secret key to decode it. The Internet proposal comes just as RSA and the Digital Equipment Corporation of Maynard, Mass., have agreed to give Digital full access to the same technology that Internet proposes to use. Digital is expected to announce the agreement today. Digital officials said they expected to integrate RSA's technology into a broad array of software and hardware products. Recent Intrusions Cited ''The events of the past two years have shown that security has now become a necessary aspect of reliable distributed computing,'' said Robert Schleelein, manager of strategic relations for Digital's network and communications group. He was referring to numerous recent cases in which intruders have entered computer networks. The agreement between Digital and RSA could give Digital a competitive edge in providing future computer equipment to users of the networks who want to take advantage of its new encryption technology. It will also probably mean that RSA's public key encryption technology, which is proprietary, could become the encryption standard on computer networks. ''Those of us who are involved in setting standards don't like to include in a standard anything that is a proprietary technology,'' noted Dr. Stephen Kent, chairman of the Internet Task Force on Privacy. ''Adopting RSA, we have violated that rule of thumb, but we've done it with the full knowledge that we were doing it, and because we felt there were no other viable alternatives.'' Dr. Kent, chief scientist at BBN Communications Inc., in Cambridge, Mass., said the Internet standard was the result of more than two years of joint efforts by representatives from BBN, the Mitre Corporation, the Xerox Corporation, Digital, Texas Instruments Inc., University College in London, the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and the Commerce Department's Institute of Standards and Technology. Digital's adoption and explicit endorsement of the RSA technology is itself a ''tremendous advance in information security,'' said John O'Mara, executive director of the Computer Security Institute, an association of 3,000 corporate data security officers. Home | Site Index | Site Search | Forums | Archives | Marketplace Quick News | Page One Plus | International | National/N.Y. | Business | Technology | Science | Sports | Weather | Editorial | Op-Ed | Arts | Automobiles | Books | Diversions | Job Market | Real Estate | Travel Help/Feedback | Classifieds | Services | New York Today Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 