encryption17.txt
MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT BUY a technology stock. Close your eyes. And hold on for dear life. That was the formula for success as a sizzling equity market, fueled by a white-hot technology sector, propelled many stock-fund managers to double-digit returns in the fourth quarter of 1999, according to Morningstar Inc., the Chicago financial publisher. Three managers whose funds were on the list of top performers talked about their winning stock picks for the quarter and looked to the future. Smiling With Growth Stocks Funds from the Janus family have often been near the top of performance lists in recent years, and the last quarter was no exception. The Janus Venture fund, which leans toward smaller technology stocks, returned 82.8 percent, earning it the No. 5 place on the overall list of diversified equity funds. ''We look for small-cap growth companies with high return on invested capital, strong market positions and open-ended growth opportunities,'' said Jonathan D. Coleman, co-manager of the $2.7 billion fund with William H. Bales. One of the fund's biggest winners was SDL, a semiconductor maker in San Jose, Calif., whose stock rose 185.7 percent in the quarter. The company's chips are used in dense wave division multiplexing, or DWDM, which splits fiber optic cable into many wavelengths of light, greatly increasing capacity. ''It's a primary beneficiary in the surge of data traffic caused by skyrocketing Internet usage,'' Mr. Coleman said. The fund also made money in Enzon, a biotechnology company in Piscataway, N.J., that produces a second-generation version of alpha interferon, a drug used for treating hepatitis C. Enzon, whose shares rose 42.2 percent in the quarter, has a distribution agreement with Schering-Plough for the drug, called peg-intron A, and will get ''a high-single-digit royalty on every dollar's worth of sales,'' he said. Another winner was Commerce One, a Walnut Creek, Calif., company whose software creates a vendor network that lets buyers bid for goods online. ''Instead of purchasing managers calling distributors around the country to track down the best prices,'' Mr. Bales said, ''they just bid on the Internet.'' The stock rose 503.3 percent in the quarter. Looking forward, the two managers are cautious. ''We've been fortunate to experience a tremendous period of returns that are not sustainable long term,'' Mr. Bales said. Further, he added, ''we have concerns that the Federal Reserve will continue raising interest rates, because the economy is so strong.'' Sector Within a Sector If Internet companies were hot, one part of that sector was especially so. ''The focus of investors this quarter was on business-to-business opportunity,'' said Frank P. Slattery, who runs the $228.6 million PBHG New Opportunities fund. The fund is concentrated, holding just 30 companies with fast-growing earnings or sales. Technology stocks make up 80 percent of the fund, with 15 to 20 percent of the total in business-to-business, or B2B, stocks. Tax efficiency is not a strong point. The fund's turnover is projected at 500 percent, because Mr. Slattery trades in and out of his 30 holdings as well as other stocks to capture short-term gains. In the fourth quarter, the fund returned 166.1 percent, giving it the No. 1 slot on the overall list. One big winner was InfoSpace.com, a company in Redmond, Wash., that syndicates Internet content like horoscopes, weather forecasts and stock quotations to the likes of America Online and Microsoft. Such information ''builds customer brand loyalty for the Web page,'' he said. The company, whose stock rose 420.4 percent in the quarter, has also signed up wireless providers, he added. The fund also made money in Rare Medium Group, a Web consulting firm in New York that focuses on B2B e-commerce, linking suppliers and buyers and putting their Internet strategies into practice. ''It's one of the best and most advanced implementation firms,'' Mr. Slattery said. Rare Medium also functions as an incubator of online B2B companies, owning stakes in 20 concerns, a number of which will go public in 2000, he added. He expects the company, whose stock rose 223.1 percent in the quarter, to earn a profit in the first half of 2001. The fund benefited, too, from its position in Certicom, a Mississauga, Ontario, concern that produces encryption technology used by companies to make their Internet communications secure. Such technology is ''one of the fastest-growth areas in business-to-business commerce,'' Mr. Slattery said. The stock rose 421.2 percent in the quarter, and he expects the company to become profitable in the first half of 2001. During the first quarter of a year, Mr. Slattery said, technology stocks are traditionally strong. As for how the sector fares later in 2000, he added, ''it depends on how investors perceive the growth of the Internet.'' On the New-Issue Express A surge of hot initial offerings landed the $57.8 million IPO Plus Aftermarket fund at No. 16 on the list of top performers, with a return of 71.6 percent. In 1999, the three co-managers -- Linda R. Killian and a husband-and-wife team, William K. and Kathleen S. Smith -- sifted through more than 500 offerings with market capitalizations of more than $50 million, more than double last year's total. They ended the year with 65 stocks in their portfolio. They posted strong profits from Genentech, the biopharmaceutical giant, which finished the quarter with a 83.9 percent gain. The managers bought the stock in its July offering, when it was spun off from Roche. ''They have a very strong drug pipeline,'' Ms. Killian said, ''and a good mix of mature and early-stage drugs that could be groundbreaking.'' She cited Herceptin, for treating breast cancer, and Rituxan, for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Another favorite was Invitrogen, a Carlsbad, Calif., company that produces kits used for gene cloning and identification, and for DNA sequencing. The company is a way to play gene research in both the medical and agricultural fields, Ms. Killian said; since its February offering, it has made several acquisitions, including a gene library. The shares rose 78.4 percent in the quarter. The fund also made money in Sycamore Networks, in Chelmsford, Mass. The stock, bought at its October offering, was up 710.5 percent by the end of the year. The company produces software that lets companies transmit data directly over a fiber optic network without using an intermediary. She, too, is cautiously optimistic. ''Even though the valuation of companies defies logic, we look at the coming I.P.O. pipeline and still see a lot of good companies,'' Ms. Killian said. ''We don't expect this year's enormous demand to repeat, but there's still a huge supply-and-demand imbalance.'' 