TECHNOLOGY Today a group of Princeton computer scientists will present a research paper that has spurred debate over the freedom of scientific research and a 1998 digital copyright law that places restrictions on the dissemination of decryption information. The paper, which reveals the flaws in several encryption techniques for compact discs, was withdrawn at the last minute from a conference in April because the researchers said they feared litigation from the Recording Industry Association of America, a trade group that has moved to stamp out piracy threats in the era of digital music. But in early June, the computer scientists filed a federal lawsuit in New Jersey against the recording association and other groups asking for permission to present their findings at today's Usenix Security Conference in Washington, as well as for protection to publish future findings. The lawsuit is challenging sections of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 as an unconstitutional restriction on free speech. ''We feel that this law, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, should not be used to restrain scientific research and scientific publications,'' said Edward W. Felten, an associate professor of computer science at Princeton who led the research team, which also included researchers from Rice University and a Xerox research center. The recording association says it does not oppose the presentation of the paper and that it had told Dr. Felten previously that it would not sue. Matthew Oppenheim, head of litigation for the association, said he found the lawsuit mystifying, ''It's like a bully who is looking for a fight, and the other kid doesn't want to fight, he said. ''He just keeps pushing you and pushing you and pushing you.'' But Dr. Felten says the association changed its stance only after the researchers filed the lawsuit in June with the support of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a civil liberties group that has also supported a case that involves the decryption of DVD's. That case, which involves a magazine publisher who was ordered to stop distributing a decryption program on his Web site, is being appealed in federal court. The copyright act has come under increased criticism lately after the arrest of Dmitri Sklyarov, a 26-year-old Russian cryptographer, on charges of trafficking in a device that allows the decryption of the Adobe Systems software for electronic books. Mr. Sklyarov, who was released on bail last week, faces his next court hearing on Aug. 23. The Princeton group's research paper stemmed from a public challenge issued by the Secure Digital Music Initiative, a coalition of 200 music, telecommunications and consumer electronics companies, which offered a $10,000 prize to anyone who could successfully remove a digital ''watermark'' from a music file within a month. The team said they broke most of the encryption techniques within three weeks, but they turned down the prize money so that they would not feel restrained in publishing their findings. ''You don't have to be a world-class computer scientist to defeat these technologies by any means,'' said Dr. Felten, who is spending the year at Stanford University. After the researchers moved to release their findings, the recording association sent a letter that read in part. ''Any disclosure of information gained from participating in the public challenge'' could subject the research team ''to actions under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act.'' ''In hindsight the letter may have been a little strong,'' Mr. Oppenheim said. Today the paper will be presented by Scott A. Craver, a graduate student, and will be followed by a panel discussion on the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. The Usenix Association is a group of about 10,000 computer research scientists. Despite today's presentation, Dr. Felten said the lawsuit would continue, as it is asking for broader protections beyond this specific paper. 