encryption18.txt
January 11, 2000 By JERI CLAUSING Opt-Out Site for Spam Draws Criticism Final Encryption Rules May Be Approved; Cybersquatting Bill Wins Dubious Honor; Political Group Hires Indiana Attorney General ASHINGTON -- The Direct Marketing Association on Monday launched a Web site where consumers can request that their e-mail addresses be removed from lists used to send unsolicited commercial e-mail. But the service came under immediate attack from groups pushing for stronger regulation of such messages, often known as spam. The new site, called the E-Mail Preference Service (e-MPS), lets consumers register addresses that they would like to be kept out of spam lists. The registration expires after one year. The DMA, which is the direct marketing industry's leading trade group, said all of its 4,500 members will be required to take registered addresses off of their mailing lists, while non-members can also use the service. Critics said the service was flawed because it placed responsibility for reducing spam on consumers instead of companies. "The e-MPS is a red herring whose sole purpose is to paint a veneer of legitimacy on the practice of spamming," said Mickey Chandler, president of the Forum for Responsible and Ethical E-Mail, which along with the Spam Recycling Center called for a boycott of the system. "The DMA , as a matter of policy, is protecting spamming and the e-MPS is a part of that pro-spam effort," he said. The salvos are the latest in the spam war between marketing companies and Internet service providers and their customers. Internet users and ISPs have for years sought congressional action to either outlaw unsolicited commercial e-mail or force companies to move to an opt-in system, which would require companies to get the approval of consumers before sending them commercial messages. "The e-MPS is rooted in the idea that marketers have a right to flood the e-mail accounts of consumers, and that it is a consumer's responsibility to beg for relief," said Scott Hazen-Mueller, chairman of the Coalition Against Unsolicited Commercial E-Mail . "We call upon consumers to reject the DMA's cynical attempt to say, 'If you get spammed, it's your problem.'" H. Robert Wientzen, president and chief executive of the DMA, said e-MPS would not eliminate all unsolicited commercial e-mail, but that it "can become an important part of the overall solution." "The Internet will be an increasingly important means of conducting business, and e-MPS will help ensure that commercial e-mail remains a viable communications tool in the marketing process," he said. Final Truce on Encryption Rules? When it comes to revising the White House's controversial rules on the export of encryption technology, the administration's point man has no illusions about pleasing everyone. Still, William A. Reinsch, undersecretary of commerce, expressed confidence Monday that after months of negotiations with key industry figures, the regulations that the White House is expected to approve this week will be widely accepted by the computer and software industries. "Nobody is ever happy in this business, and I am confident that not everybody will be happy," said Reinsch, who heads the Bureau of Export Administration . "I do know that the people we have worked with and consulted -- a very large entourage of affected parties -- have been very positive about this draft and feel it hits the mark." Companies involved in the process agreed, although they cautioned that a final analysis can not be made until the new regulations are in print. Reinsch said the regulations should be released to the public by Friday. The administration had planned to finish the regulations in mid-December. But critics said its original draft failed to live up to earlier promises, and the deadline was delayed so the administration could create another draft and get more input from the companies that would be affected. "We made a lot of changes since the original draft," Reinsch said. "It is increasingly hard for companies to come in and say that what we've done would have an adverse impact on them." The regulations aim to make good on a promise by Vice President Al Gore last fall to lift the administration's long-standing and controversial export controls on the bulk of mass-market hardware and software used to scramble data to keep it secure. High-tech companies in the United States have long argued that the export controls keep them from competing with foreign companies. But the administration, at the urging of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the National Security Agency , had resisted loosening those rules because of fears that encryption would be more widely used by terrorists. As a concession, the administration has promised to push for additional money to help law enforcement and national security experts develop new ways to detect and fight crimes in electronic settings. Cybersquatting Bill Wins 'Cyberserk Award' The anti-cybersquatting bill passed by Congress last year to outlaw the peddling of domain names incorporating trademarks has won the 1999 Cyberserk Award, a satirical honor that is bestowed annually by the authors of the Domain Name Handbook . The book's co-authors, siblings Ellen and Peter Rony, who keep track of domain name happenings around the world on their Web site, said the new law beat many other candidates for the dart, which is bestowed annually upon a company, organization, institution or individual "deemed unclear on the concept of the domain name system." "The Anti-Cybersquatting Consumer Protection Act, despite all the fashionable buzzwords in its title, codifies a trademark agenda in cyberspace," Ellen Rony wrote in announcing the award on electronic discussion lists last week. "It grants all trademark holders vast new rights at the expense of fair use and free expression. For this reason, we bestow the 1999 Cyberserk Award upon this piece of legislation, which we believe furthers the vision that the Internet's primary purpose is as a commercial medium and trademark owner's playground, rather than a global communication commons." The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers , which oversees the domain name system, came in a close second for the uniform dispute resolution policy (UDRP) it adopted for handling cybersquatting disputes. "ICANN's one-sided, anti-competitive and intrusive UDRP earns it the 1999 title as First Runner-Up," Rony said. "We award that body, whose authority and legitimacy remain questionable, a moral compass to help ICANN find its way through the intellectual property thicket." Political Group Hires Indiana Attorney General In a move designed to expand its role beyond raising funds for candidates, Technology Network last week hired Indiana's attorney general to help it move into the policy arena. Jeff Modisett resigned his office last week to become the bipartisan group's Democratic political director and general counsel. Modisett, who met TechNet's president, Roberta Katz, while arranging a conference for state attorneys general on the Internet, brings an extensive background in consumer protection law as well as experience as a federal, state and local legislator to his new position. TechNet, which is based in Silicon Valley, was formed to get high-tech companies and their executives more involved in the political process. The CAPITAL DISPATCH column is published weekly, on Tuesdays. Click here for a list of links to other columns in the series. Related Sites These sites are not part of The New York Times on the Web, and The Times has no control over their content or availability. The Direct Marketing Association E-Mail Preference Service Spam Recycling Center Coalition Against Unsolicited Commercial E-Mail White House Bureau of Export Administration Federal Bureau of Investigation National Security Agency The Domain Name Handbook Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers Technology Network Jeri Clausing at jeri@nytimes.com welcomes your comments and suggestions. 