encryption23.txt
Facebook’s WhatsApp, the popular messaging app, is getting a security upgrade. WhatsApp messages on Android phones are now encrypted all the way through the transmission process and on their own servers using respected, open-source encryption techniques developed by Open Whisper Systems. iOS and other platforms are soon to follow. The partnership is a coup for Open Whisper Systems, which is an offshoot of Whisper Systems, a company that developed secure text-messaging and encrypted calling apps like TextSecure, RedPhone, Signal and Flock. Whisper Systems was acquired by Twitter in 2011, and Open Whisper Systems became a sort of loosely run, open-source project designed to create easier encryption standards that companies can use to create more private messaging. WhatsApp boasts some 600 million users, making it a potentially juicy target for hackers looking to steal personal information or private photos. And the app has had its share of security concerns, including complaints that, before 2012, all its messages were sent in plain text. That meant anyone could read them if they were intercepted (and intercepting messages is easy if, say, you’re surfing on a public Wi-Fi network, for example). WhatsApp did eventually encrypt its messages while they were en route between the sender and WhatsApp’s servers. But they weren’t necessarily encrypted there, which meant they were vulnerable to hackers, the company itself or government requests. End-to-end encryption, by contrast, protects messages at every step. They’re only decrypted once they get to the person they’re intended to reach, and they stay encrypted on WhatsApp’s servers. “This level of privacy has typically only been found in smaller, specialty security-focused software, so it’s exciting to see it happen on this scale,” said Moxie Marlinspike, the well-respected security researcher who co-founded Open Whisper Systems. Google released an extension for Chrome in June that would provide this full-service encryption on some messages. Facebook, which owns WhatsApp, said last spring that it would rely on third-party applications to provide end-to-end encryption in apps like Facebook Messenger, mainly because the encryption can be so complicated to use. It often requires users to exchange public encryption keys, and raises questions about whether companies control the keys that could unlock messages on their own servers. And most people don’t realize that when a service says messages are encrypted, that doesn’t mean they aren’t stored in the open on that company’s servers. Mr. Marlinspike said encryption would be turned on by default in WhatsApp as the encryption is unveiled, so users won’t have to do anything to make it work. So, WhatsApp won’t be able to read its users’ messages, and someone who intercepts them can’t read them without a decryption key. And WhatsApp won’t have access to those keys, so it can’t read your messages either. If someone steals your phone, and you don’t have a password on your device, they could still read messages you have stored there. But the new encryption makes it much harder for someone to spy on private messages. Mr. Marlinspike wouldn’t speculate on whether encrypting WhatsApp messages might be a backdoor into Facebook Messages or any other communications of the app’s parent company. But he said the goal was to create easy-to-use tools that any company can carry out to provide secure communications without having to become cryptographic experts themselves. “This has been really encouraging to us,” he said. “There are a lot of companies that are really sympathetic to the idea and if we just make it really easy for them, they’ll do it.” 