encryption16.txt
Computer Security Methods Weighed August 16, 1983 Computer Security Methods Weighed By DAVID SANGER orporate executives and telecommunications experts said yesterday that the recent breach of computer security at the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico had renewed fears about entrusting proprietary information to data networks that are easily accessible by telephone. The Los Alamos case has particularly worried many executives because the laboratory's computer was entered through Telenet, a popular computer time-sharing system used by more than 1,000 companies throughout the country. Switching facilities at Telenet, a unit of the GTE Corporation, enable employees in a company's branch office, for example, to tap into a central computer at a corporate headquarters thousands of miles away. 'Ringing Off the Hook' ''Our phone has literally been ringing off the hook'' since the Los Alamos incident became public last week, said Robert P. Campbell, president of Advanced Information Management Inc., a consulting concern that advises several banks and credit card services on how to protect their data. ''It amazes me that so many executives don't realize that, when they turn information over to a computer service, it basically travels in the clear,'' he said. Data sent ''in the clear'' is not coded, and thus can be intercepted with relative ease. Most companies are reluctant to discuss their computer security systems, or even acknowledge the extent to which they are dependent on computer systems that are accessible over ordinary telephone lines. But Mr. Campbell and others say that, since January, there have been at least a dozen major cases of tampering or theft of corporate data in the United States, with news of the incidents frequently suppressed by the victims. Crucial Issue for Business With companies conducting more and more of their record-keeping tasks and financial transactions electronically, the issue of telecommunications security has become crucial for business. Through services such as Telenet and its main competitor, Tymshare, company employees can gain access to a variety of data by dialing a local telephone number and entering one or more passwords through a computer keyboard. ''Unfortunately, we have found that companies are not particularly tight in the way they protect access to these networks,'' said Alan P. Zucchino, a vice president of Tymshare in Cupertino, Calif. ''The reality is that companies are issued passwords and hand them out freely to many employees - and then there is nothing we can do.'' Spokesmen at Telenet and Tymshare agreed that, using current technology, they had no way of insuring that only authorized individuals were using their networks. The young people involved in the Los Alamos case were caught only after the laboratory noted an unusual increase in activity on its computer system. Laboratory officials notified Telenet, which traced the calls to Milwaukee. Some users of Telenet's system, most of whom asked not to be identified, said the Los Alamos incident was prompting them to review their security systems. Some said the incident would accelerate their consideration of alternative methods of transmitting and receiving computer data, including the construction of networks of their own. Citibank, for example, is already constructing its own telecommunications system, partly for reasons of data security. ''There really is a growing threat to these public networks because of advancements in the performance of home computer equipment,'' said Lamar Brantley, director of retail funds acquisition for the United States League of Savings Institutions. Last December, a group of savings and loan associations signed a three- year, $10 million agreement with Telenet for a wide range of investment services. However, banking industry sources said that the public systems were rarely used for transfers of funds. One major bank, which asked not to be indentified, said that on the rare occasion when funds were ordered transferred through such a system, the messages are heavily encrypted. For the majority of corporate messages, however, encryption has been too expensive and too awkward. Experts note that most banks still do not even code the messages sent on dedicated lines between electronic teller machines and bank computers. ''I would have to say that the machines are relatively vulnerable,'' said Mr. Brantley. Credit card systems are also subject to abuse as illustrated in a case that arose last month in Fairfax City, Va. On July 26, Richard P. Shanklin pleaded guilty to charges arising from an indictment that charged he used a home computer to gain credit card information from Credit Bureau Inc. of Atlanta, a credit reporting concern. The indictment charged that Mr. Shanklin used the information to charge about $50,000 worth of goods over the telephone. Papers filed in the case also indicated that he had a microwave antenna on his roof, leading some experts to speculate that he was plucking the data from the airwaves as it was sent between computers. Neither the credit bureau nor Mr. Shanklin's attorney could be reached for comment. At Telenet, a spokesman said that a system for providing greater security was currently under study. While she declined to give details, she said it involved call screening, which would enable users to gain access to particular computers only if they were calling from a designated telephone, and if they had the correct passwords. There is some question, however, as to whether those efforts will prove workable. ''What is easy to forget,'' said a telecommunications expert at Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, the brokerage house, ''is that people use these systems because they are quick and efficient. If you make them too secure, you destroy their value.'' Home | Site Index | Site Search | Forums | Archives | Marketplace Quick News | Page One Plus | International | National/N.Y. | Business | Technology | Science | Sports | Weather | Editorial | Op-Ed | Arts | Automobiles | Books | Diversions | Job Market | Real Estate | Travel Help/Feedback | Classifieds | Services | New York Today Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 