encryption10.txt
VISIONS: TECHNOLOGY: QUANTUM COMPUTERS AND CARS SMARTER THAN YOU ARE ISAAC CHUANG has built a machine that may one day leave the world's fastest supercomputers behind, but just now the thing is busy helping its master perform a little magic. Mr. Chuang holds out a paper clip in his cupped hand, and the clip instantly suspends itself in thin air, trapped in a force field generated by the weird device five feet away -- a quantum computer. It's an elaborate parlor trick. But this is an elaborate parlor: I.B.M.'s Almaden Research Center, where Mr. Chuang, a physicist, is one of hundreds of people searching out the next frontiers of computation. It's a submicroscopic realm where the rules can be confounding and the results uncertain. Mr. Chuang's quantum computer, for example, is based on strange physics that apply when it is possible to control the behavior of individual molecules and atoms. In contrast to conventional computers, which store and retrieve information represented as ones and zeros, quantum machines can simultaneously compute upon a potentially vast number of pieces of information in the space of the same one or zero. It is a through-the-looking-glass world in which yes and no can be true at the same time, and where events can happen simultaneously in multiple places. The potential is enormous. The reality is that Mr. Chuang's device has not shown that it can solve useful scientific problems. And the need for such a breakthrough is being felt with urgency by the computer industry. In a range of fields that place demands on the components of a modern computer -- processing logic, memory and permanent storage -- researchers are facing the challenge of how to continue creating faster and more powerful computers once the limits of Moore's Law have been reached. In a phenomenon first observed in the 1960's by Gordon Moore, the co-founder of the Intel Corporation, the semiconductor industry has been able to double the number of transistors on a single piece of silicon every 18 months, leading to a still accelerating increase in computer processing power. The industry thinks this will continue until 2014 when, if not sooner, the basic processes underlying semiconductor electronics will simply stop working. Devices will be so small that they will be plagued by the very subatomic forces that Mr. Chuang and his colleagues here are hoping to harness. In his laboratory, Mr. Chuang holds a thin test tube filled with a bright yellow fluid. Suspended in this liquid crystal solution are about 10 septillion (10 to the 18th power) molecules that make up the fundamental component of a quantum computer, known as a qubit. These are molecules chosen because in an intense magnetic field their electrons can be precisely oriented. Computing takes place when the molecules are ''programmed'' with a burst of radio waves, causing the rotation of their electrons to change and a quantum calculation to occur. With a small number of qubits, a quantum computer could perform a vast number of calculations in parallel. One possible use might be to factor large numbers rapidly -- perhaps so rapidly as to undermine the encryption systems that are the foundation for electronic commerce on the Internet. ''Fortunately,'' Mr. Chuang says, ''what quantum computing will take away with one hand it will give back with another.'' And indeed, in the same research laboratory, tucked away in the rolling hills south of Silicon Valley, another group of scientists has developed a working data-scrambling system based on the same quantum phenomena. The system might make it possible to exchange information secretly without fear that the communications could be decoded by even the most powerful computer. Openness to radically new ideas is common among the scientists here. They also seem to be acutely aware that fundamental advances can neither be engineered nor planned for. For example, in the early 1990's an I.B.M. scientist, Stuart Parkin, stumbled upon the crucial material necessary to create a phenomenon known as gigantic magneto resistance, or G.M.R., when someone in his lab incorrectly filled in a table on a computer screen. This discovery of a thin sandwich of materials led to a new ultrasensitive sensor for disk drives, permitting a vast increase in the amount of information that can be stored and retrieved by a computer. Now Mr. Parkin has set his sights on a new data storage application for magnetism based on the quantum forces Mr. Chuang is exploring. He is working on a new kind of memory chip -- known as magnetic random access memory -- which, if it can be made cheaply, might become the standard computer memory for future personal digital assistants and every other portable electronic device. Mr. Parkin spends his days searching for the magic combination of superthin sandwiches of molecules that interact in the precisely right way. ''It's a huge space to search,'' he said. ''It involves serendipity, luck and hopefully some science.'' 