encryption19.txt
January 12, 2000 White House Eases Rules on Encryption Exports By JERI CLAUSING fter months of negotiations with high-tech companies, the Clinton administration on Wednesday significantly eased its cumbersome rules on exporting encryption software, the popular products that are used to keep computer data and communications secure. The new rules were cautiously applauded by industry groups, who have for years been fighting the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the National Security Agency for greater freedom to sell their cutting-edge products to foreign markets. But it remains unclear whether the administration's move will end a years-long stalemate with industry groups and Congressional leaders, who have been pushing legislation to essentially eliminate the administration's oversight on the export of strong data-scrambling technology. The key, companies said Wednesday, will be in how the administration applies its new definitions to actual products. "I think by and large the administration made good on its promise," said Dan Burton, vice president of government relations for Novell Inc., a leading software company based in Utah. "There is a significant liberalization that is really going to allow U.S. firms to export strong encryption software overseas. And I think if you were going to characterize this you would say this is an inside-the-ballpark home run. By that I mean you still are operating within the framework of the assumption that they still can control encryption exports." Representative Zoe Lofgren, a California Democrat who has sponsored one of the main encryption export bills along with Representative Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican, called the regulations a "major breakthrough" and said she was hopeful the legislation can now be dropped. "I haven't had a chance to talk to Bob yet but I think [pursuing the bill] would be a mistake," she said. "I think much of what we wanted to achieve has in fact been achieved through these regulation changes." Lofgren said the new regulations are overly complex and still have some problem areas, "but I'm hopeful in the coming months we work through and resolve those." The new regulations, which won't be officially published in the Federal Register until Friday, mark a significant step for the Clinton Administration, which at the urging of the FBI and intelligence officials for years has resisted calls from high-tech companies and privacy groups to ease export controls on data-scrambling products. Law enforcement officials have insisted that the widespread availability of strong encryption products would make it harder for them to fight terrorists and drug cartels in the digital age. The Encryption Debate: Is It About Privacy or Security? Go to Forum Related Articles The new regulations will allow American companies to ship encryption products of any strength around the world to commercial firms, individuals and other non-government users after a one-time technical review by an interagency panel. Retail products, many of which are already widely used in the United States to protect everything from networks to individual e-mail programs, could be shipped to anyone, including governments, in all but seven nations that the United States has labeled as terrorist. Previously, many companies were forced to manufacture two different versions of their software - one with strong encryption for U.S. consumers and another product with weaker security features to customers overseas. Companies with foreign subsidiaries would be allowed to ship products they buy in the United States to their affiliates without any review. Burton said the administration made significant progress since its first draft, circulated in November, was roundly criticized as falling short of Vice President Al Gore's promises of major reform in September. The major criticism of that draft was that the definition of "retail" was too narrow and the definition of "government user" was too broad, which would make it difficult for companies to sell strong encryption products to telecommunications companies and Internet service providers that are partly owned by governments. The final version lets companies sell retail products to such companies as long as they are not used for government purposes. So while companies said they won major concessions from the administration over the past few months, the said they will be closely watching how those final definitions are applied. "I think that what we are going to do right now is take the regulations that we got and work with those and digest them, sort of see where the roadblocks are and what we need to resolve," Burton said "If we have problems, we will have to continue pushing for legislation." Alan Davidson, a lawyer with the Center for Democracy and Technology, an online civil liberties group based in Washington, said the new regulations are "good news and bad news." "The good news is that consumers all over the world are going to have access to much stronger encryption," Davidson said. "The bad news is that if you want to send encryption out of the country, you have to hire a lawyer to do it. These regulations are very complicated." Davidson said his group was also concerned that the new regulations failed to exempt researchers from sharing their codes with foreign counterparts. "They do not fix the fundamental constitutional flaw in the U.S. policy that says researchers have to ask for permission before they exchange ideas with people outside of the United States." Jeri Clausing at jeri@nytimes.com welcomes your comments and suggestions. 