spyware14.txt
Q & A Q. If I download a free program from the Web and install it on my computer, how can I make sure it is not secretly installing other software that tracks my Web surfing habits? A. Programs that make use of your Internet connection without your permission or knowledge are often referred to as ''spyware'' because they can do such things as report information about your computer hardware or Web-surfing habits back to their creators (or advertisers). Some users would even classify programs with automatic update features as spyware, although a commercial program is usually more upfront about its intentions and will include preferences so the user can disable the function. Other spyware can be much sneakier, and you may not even know you have it on your computer. Installing personal fire-wall software on your machine can alert you if a program is trying to connect to the Internet without your knowledge. There are at least two free fire-wall programs for home Windows users -- Tiny Personal Firewall (www .tinysoftware.com) and Zone Alarm (www.zonelabs.com) -- and many inexpensive programs for Windows and Macintosh systems as well. The Spychecker Web site (www.spychecker.com) maintains a searchable database of programs that are known to contain spyware. OptOut (grc.com/optout.htm) is an excellent site with plenty of information about online privacy issues and links to freeware like Ad-Aware that helps detect spyware. Q. I recently had to reinstall Windows 98, and since then images on my monitor have been larger than before and run off the screen. Is there a way to correct this problem? A. When you reinstalled your Windows operating system, all of your personalized settings for the old version of your system were lost. Among these settings is one for screen resolution, which controls the size of the image that you see on your monitor. If images on the screen seem much larger than before you reinstalled Windows, you were probably using a higher screen resolution than the standard default setting of 640 by 480 pixels. To fix this problem, go to the Start menu, click on Settings and then Control Panel, and double-click on the Display icon. (You can also get there by right-clicking on the desktop and selecting Properties from the pop-up menu.) Click on the Settings tab in the Display Properties box and go to the slider control under the words Screen Area. Most monitors these days will support a few different screen resolutions, so drag the slider from 640 by 480 pixels to 800 by 600 pixels (or higher) and click Apply. The image size on the screen should change, and Windows will ask you if you want to keep the new settings. Q. When I turn on my computer, the Yahoo Messenger program appears on my Windows desktop before I get online. Is there any way to prevent the Messenger program from starting up before I want it to? A. Many instant-message programs have default settings that allow them to start up automatically when you turn on your computer. In most of these programs, you can turn off the feature from within the program's settings. For Yahoo Messenger, go to the Login menu in the message window and select Preferences. Click on the General category and uncheck the box that says ''Automatically start Yahoo! Messenger.'' (You may have to connect to the Yahoo service to change some of the program preferences.) If you want to stop other programs from starting up on their own, check their preferences for similar settings. Shortcuts in your StartUp folder can also start programs. Right-click on the Start button, select Open and double-click on the Programs folder. Open the StartUp folder and remove the shortcuts to programs that are starting automatically against your wishes. J. D. BIERSDORFER Circuits invites questions about computer-based technology, by e-mail to QandA@nytimes.com or mail to Questions, Circuits, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036-3959. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually. 