spyware21.txt
WHAT'S ONLINE FOR all the improvements in computer security, using the Internet is growing only more dangerous -- both at home and at work. The annual Web@Work survey, conducted by Harris Interactive for the security firm Websense, found that the number of companies reporting spyware infestations had jumped 50 percent in the last year alone, and now nearly 92 percent of companies report that they have found spyware on their networks (websense.com). Spyware is a somewhat loose term, and can mean anything from often innocuous Web cookies to Trojan programs that can hijack a computer. But more dangerous varieties of spyware are on the rise, said Michael Newman, a vice president at Websense. He told John Gordon of "Future Tense" on American Public Media (futuretense.publicradio.org) that information technology managers were increasingly finding keylogging software on their systems. This "particularly malicious" type of spyware detects every keystroke made on a computer and can pick up passwords and other sensitive information, Mr. Newman said. Pornography sites are among the most dangerous, with many of them replete with pop-up ads and spyware. The good news is that the number of employees reported to have visited a porn site at work dropped to 12 percent from 17 percent the last year. Of those, 95 percent said their visits to porn sites were "accidental." Whoops! Meanwhile, SiteAdvisor, the Web safety service recently acquired by the security firm McAfee, reported this week that search engines offered little protection from dangerous sites (siteadvisor.com). This includes paid and unpaid search results. In fact, SiteAdvisor found, sponsored results on average contain two to four times the number of malicious sites as do regular results. Some of the most popular kinds of searches lead Internet users to dangerous sites, SiteAdvisor reported. Often, the sites offer downloads like file-sharing software and screensavers that contain malicious programs. Up to 72 percent of the results from keywords like "Bearshare" or "screensaver" lead to sites that pose a risk. A VICTORY FOR SPAMMERS -- Another problem besetting Internet users, spam, may get slightly worse with this week's news that Blue Frog, an anti-spam service offered by the company Blue Security, was shut down after a fatal cyberattack from spammers. Blue Frog worked like this: Clients would lodge a complaint, and Blue Security would request that spammers stop sending e-mail to the client. If that failed, Blue Security would fill in forms on the spammers' Web sites asking that their clients' names be removed -- often crippling the spammers' systems with an overload of data. The method was controversial, even among some foes of spam, with some of them saying it amounted to stooping to the level of spammers themselves. But it must have worked well enough to enrage one large spam operation, which unleashed a "distributed denial of service" attack against Blue Security this month -- essentially sending so much data to its servers that the service could not be used. The spammer, based in Russia, according to the company, also threatened to attack individual clients' computers. The attack was so large that it affected other sites, including the popular LiveJournal blogging service. BANKS AND BANDS -- Investment banks have identifiable personalities, decided Mark Gilbert, a columnist for Bloomberg News. So do rock bands. So he matched the characteristics of the banks to those of the bands (Bloomberg.com). Goldman Sachs is like the Rolling Stones: "Unrivaled profit-generating abilities arouse jealousy and admiration in equal measure." Deutsche Bank is like Fleetwood Mac: "Immensely profitable? Check. Years of infighting and not communicating with one another? Check. Badly in need of a style makeover? Check." And, "both Merrill Lynch & Company and Madonna peaked in the 1980's and have been irrelevant since the 1990's." DAN MITCHELL 