spyware16.txt
Q & A Q. I keep seeing offers for ''digital'' cable television. What makes this different from regular cable television? Do I need a special TV? A. Digital cable services, which are starting to become available from many national cable television companies, use a different technology from standard cable. Standard cable transmits analog signals through its wires. Digital cable transmits digitized signals through the wires, which take up less bandwidth and provide better picture quality. Because the signals are more compact, the cable companies can often transmit more data through their wires, resulting in more channel options for the customer. Digital cable is different from high-definition television (HDTV), a type of digital signal format whose users need to purchase a special type of television set and a tuner to watch programs. You do not need to purchase a new television set to use digital cable, but you will have to get a special box from your cable company that can handle the digital signals and display them properly on your television set. Some companies do not yet provide digital cable service because it often requires upgrading of the wiring. If you are interested in such service, you should check with your local cable provider to see whether it offers it and what kinds of service packages are available in your area. People interested in how cable TV works in general can turn to an excellent resource, the How Stuff Works site's page on the topic, at www.howstuffworks.com/cable-tv .htm. Q. Is there anything I can do about the amount of spam, some of it pornographic, that I get at my AOL address? A. America Online has some built-in tools that you can use to help block it. The Mail Controls feature will let you have a say in who sends you mail by blocking messages from specific addresses and domain names. AOL will also let you set up controls to block e-mail from unknown senders to any screen names that your children might use. The Parental Controls feature will also allow you to block instant messages, the downloading of files and chat functions for the AOL screen names that you designate. To find these features, use the AOL keyword Mail Controls. This section of the AOL service also offers tips about dealing with spam and how to report it to AOL. Q. When my firewall comes up as I go on the Internet, Brodcast is among the programs that asks to connect. What is it? A. The Brodcast program, which may also be seen running in the background of your system as an application called DSS Agent, was once included on the installation discs for many software titles made by Mattel Interactive and its subsidiaries, like The Learning Company and Broderbund Software. The Brodcast technology, which came with many children's programs like Arthur's Reading Race, was billed as a product updater and communications tool. Many online privacy groups, however, quickly put it in the category of spyware, judging the program's attempts to contact the company over the Internet without the user's permission and to gather information about children's computer habits to be dishonest and a violation of privacy. Mattel Interactive and its subsidiaries stopped including the DSS Agent program in their software titles last year. You can download a tool to remove Brodcast from your computer at support.learningco.com /brodcastpatch.asp. The Children's Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 went into effect last year and is intended to give parents control over any personal information collected about their children from online services or commercial Web sites. You can find out more about the law and its enforcement at www.coppa.org. J. D. BIERSDORFER 