spyware13.txt
Laundry Smarts To the Editor: "The Net Helps With the Laundry (Even if It Can't Fold the Shirts)" (March 15), about the Web-based laundry connection at a Massachusetts Institute of Technology dormitory sparked memories of my M.I.T. fraternity's solution in the 1970's to a perennial college problem: Is the washing machine in use? Back then — pre-Web, pre-PC, pre- everything — some of the electrical engineers in our fraternity rigged up an internal phone system to link every room in the frat house, and someone decided that our washing machines deserved their own two-digit telephone numbers. So before deciding to traipse all the way down to the basement of our brownstone, you'd dial one of the machines. A busy signal told you that it was in use; a ring would tell you to rush down and get your clothes in before someone beat you to it. Our engineers may have made living in the house a bit more convenient, but that didn't prevent us from thinking of them as nerds. TIMOTHY B. PETERS Berkeley, Calif. • To the Editor: During the mid-60's, when I was a graduate tutor in an M.I.T. dormitory, finding an available washing machine was also a hit-or-miss proposition. To save some running up and down stairs, I put a plastic clock face on each washing machine. When a student started a wash, he moved the clock hands to show when the load would be finished and the machine would be available for the next user. With its new e-mail notification system, M.I.T. has, as usual, moved an analog technology into the digital age. EDWARD MATTISON Belmont, Mass. Slips of the Fingers To the Editor: Re "A Little E-Mail (Or a Lot of It) Eases the Workday" (March 8): I was a little surprised that so many employees in the 24/7 workplace have the time to socialize in this way, but I am glad they do because the office routine is more grueling than ever. The average white-collar worker is entitled to every break he or she can muster. But most of the workplaces with which I am familiar reserve the right to monitor communications. E- mail is among the least private of communication methods available, so it is probably not the ideal medium for exchanges of intimacies, nor should it be the vehicle of choice for criticizing one's boss. It might be preferable to limit workplace e-mail messages to brief notes and confine sensitive material to letters, telephone calls and face-to- face meetings. H. C. GREISMAN Wilmington, Del. A Downloading Hazard To the Editor: Re "Zipping Up Big Files So They'll Travel Light," (Q & A, March 15): Some months ago, while attempting to identify seemingly spontaneous Internet activity from my PC, I discovered that a free trial version of PKZIP had installed advertising software, known as spyware, along with PKZIP. I went to the PKWare site and was pleasantly surprised to see a notice at its demo downloading area specifically stating that the trial versions offered did not contain the dreaded spy program. Readers should be cautioned that many of the free demo versions of PKZIP found elsewhere on the Web do contain spyware. JOSEPH GELLER New York The DopeWars Fantasy To the Editor: It's no great mystery why the game DopeWars should be so popular with computer and Palm users ("On the To-Do List: 1. Make Crime Pay," March 15). In an age when company chief executives earn hundreds of times what their workers do and workers can be replaced at will by temps and contract workers, what can be better than playing a drug kingpin? GARY L. ADLER Lynbrook, N.Y. • To the Editor: I have played DopeWars myself and became addicted — irony intended — to it. The game is indeed simple, entertaining and intriguing. But I am a science-fiction fan as well as a gamer, so I was far more intrigued by a clone of the game entitled SolarWars (cronus.cnicinc.com/solarwars). SolarWars has the same game play and the same interface, with a few enhancements: you must always have fuel for your interplanetary freighter on hand as you move between planets (rather than boroughs) and other disasters can befall you. I would recommend SolarWars as an alternative to anyone who does not agree with the theme of DopeWars and who doesn't mind some additional challenges. While I think that the current furor over DopeWars is a bit much and a bit late, I don't regret having played it one bit. JENNIFER SCOTT St. Louis `I' Before `E,' Forever To the Editor: "Aiming to Break the Rules on Spelling" (March 15), about Richard L. Wade's project to homogenize English spelling by fiat, was dismal. Would Mr. Wade also wish to raze the neo-Classical and Gothic architecture that serves as a visual backdrop in the picture of him that accompanies the article and replace it all by a more utilitarian, contour-free, low- maintenance shelter? Attending to any stage in the evolution of spelling acquaints readers with the heritage of ancient cultures that donated roots, prefixes and suffixes and with the contemporary languages from which we continually import new flavors. May the Orwellian newspell fall quickly, with a clunk and a groan, as did Esperanto. MICHAEL L. RONALL New York • To the Editor: Thi articl on fre speling presented the advantajs but glosed ovr thi disadvantajs. If you spel the wa wurdz saun and yus no punkchooashn, riting is hard tu understand. A nashun of fre spelers wil be unabl to red Shaksper, Twain and othr grat awthrz. Evn if thi clasiks r translated into fre spel, meni wil onli b abl tu red if the spelin matchs thar on pronunseashn. Rejunl pronunseashns and varying methuds of speling wil be the bugubu of fre spel. "Sankyu, I nao ve shud claos du doa bfoa ve gao tu Nyorlns," 4 xampl. Thi Estrn Penslvanya wa of saing "know" iz perhaps best spelt "nayo." A Nuhampshran wud rit "doa" but a Nu Yorker mit rit "doer" (thats "doe-er," not "due- er"). Evri2 mispels wrds sumtim, and mispelings bud male compreheshun evr mot difiklt. Dsiding hau to sho wich vowls r lang and wich are rel long e saunz wil be trike. Im sori this e mal has rechd u so lat, but I orijinli sent it to sirkuts @nytims.kom, and et wuz retrnd to me undlivrd. TOBIAS D. ROBISON Princeton, N.J. 