spyware17.txt
CONSUMER privacy is getting a squeeze on all sides these days. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks, a new federal law expands the government's powers on wiretapping and electronic monitoring. At the same time, proposals to develop tougher privacy standards for online businesses and to give federal regulators greater power to enforce those standards have stalled. For many people, increasing the power of the federal government is an acceptable trade-off; they are willing to give up a measure of privacy in return for better security, especially in the online realm. A Harris Poll released last month found that 63 percent of Americans favored the monitoring of Internet discussions and chat rooms (32 percent were opposed), and 54 percent said they favored expanded monitoring of cellphones and e-mail. The message of the poll is ''proceed, but with great care and with adequate safeguards,'' said Alan F. Westin, a professor emeritus of public law and government at Columbia University, who helped write the survey. Yet the interest of many consumers in protecting their privacy, from both government and private companies, appears to be unabated. Rick Parker, 54, an insurance executive from the Los Angeles suburb of Panorama City, said he was probably more aggressive than most Internet users in protecting his privacy online. ''I lock the doors on my house and use a deadbolt,'' he said. ''This protection is essentially the same thing for electronic data.'' The measures Mr. Parker takes show the range of what less-determined consumers can do. He uses firewall software, which monitors and filters Internet communications, to make sure that he is not inadvertently sending out personal information, and he is careful to remove evidence of his visits to Web sites. For starters, he controls ''cookies,'' the small data files that Web sites place on a visitor's hard drive. While most sites use cookies to make Web surfing more convenient by recalling where a visitor has been on the site, they can also be used to track a visitor's wanderings. Mr. Parker uses a program named AdSubtract to limit his cookies and to limit material that he finds annoying, like pop-up advertisements. Like many products, the basic software can be downloaded free, while feature-rich versions can be purchased for less than $100. The software is relatively easy to install from the Web site (www.adsubtract.com). Mr. Parker also uses Ad-aware to look for ''spyware,'' which many software companies employ to monitor the activities of users. The information is often sent back to the home office, sometimes surreptitiously, over the Internet. ''If I want to give someone permission to do a market survey of what I buy or see, that's one thing,'' he said. ''It's quite another to do it without my knowing or consenting.'' For Mr. Parker, privacy and security go hand in hand. He maintains that it is nobody's business what he does online. Like most users, he has occasionally stumbled, by typing an Internet address incorrectly, into a site with pornographic images, and he said he hates to think about what an investigator might make of information like that. As concerns over online privacy have risen, so have the number of privacy software products. It is not an especially lucrative business -- in no small part because many tools exist that consumers can download free. Also, few consumers have been willing to go to great lengths to protect their privacy. But companies are reporting a surge in interest lately. Despite the business lull after Sept. 11, ''we've just had the most successful quarter we've had on record finishing September,'' said Ed English, the chief executive of interMute, which produces the AdSubtract software. What follows is a sampling of some popular software packages and other tools that consumers can use to keep prying eyes off their communications and data. CUTTING COOKIES -- Managing cookies is the first step in taking charge of privacy. Some tools for controlling or limiting the number of cookies that are placed on computers are available in the most popular Web browsers. In Microsoft's browser, Internet Explorer 5, for example, the controls for cookies can be found by pulling down the Tools menu, opening Internet Options and clicking on the tab marked security. Users can then decide whether they want to block all cookies (which can make many sites inaccessible), or block only certain kinds of cookies, like those coming from advertisers on a Web site. In the latest version of Explorer, known as IE6, Microsoft has introduced a technology known as P3P, an abbreviation for platform for privacy preferences; that technology will, if it catches on, allow the browser to read and judge the privacy policies of participating sites. The P3P software can detect and compare users' preferences for privacy protection with the policies on each Web site and warn them if they are in conflict. Trouble is, few sites have so far created privacy policies that can be read by the P3P software. BLOCKING THE ADS -- Many consumers get cookie-cutting tools within products that help control the ads that pop up. AdSubtract helps users block ads and manage cookies, while Ad-aware (www.lavasoftusa.com) from Lavasoft detects and blocks spyware from sending information back to Web companies. Other Web sites are more specific: Bugnosis (www.bugnosis.org) identifies the invisible cookies, known as Web bugs, that can be placed without the user's knowledge, and is available from the Privacy Foundation, a research group at the University of Denver. SCRAMBLING FOR PRIVACY -- Going farther to protect privacy, consumers can buy or download programs to encrypt mail or data. The best-known consumer product in the field is PGP (www.pgp.com) from Network Associates. Similar products are available from companies like Sigaba (www.sigaba.com), and Hush Communications (www.hush.com). BECOMING ANONYMOUS -- Several products allow users to wander without identifying themselves, including Anonymizer.com and Triangle Boy (www.safeweb.com) from SafeWeb. BURGLAR ALARMS -- When people think of firewalls, they think of them as tools for stopping hacking and viruses. They can protect privacy, especially in the face of spyware. These products are common in business, but consumer versions of the technology are available in products like ZoneAlarm (www.zonealarm.com) from Zone Labs and Network Ice (www.networkice.com) from Internet Security Systems (www.iss.net). ALL IN ONE -- Companies that provide Internet security products understand that consumers also want privacy and increasingly tools like cookie controls, ad blocking and firewall protection are included in big packages like Norton Internet Security, from Symantec (www.symantec.com), which retails for $69.95. Zero-Knowledge Systems (www.zeroknowledge.com) offers privacy protection tools in its flagship product, Freedom 3.0, which costs $49.95. KEEPING UP -- Several Web sites provide information about privacy and ways to protect it. Organizations like the Electronic Privacy Information Center and the Center for Democracy and Technology, two groups in Washington, have privacy information and resources on their sites (www.epic.org; www.cdt.org). Information can also be found on other sites, www.privacyrights.org, www.privacyfoundation.org and www.privacytimes.com. Some sites offer privacy protection products, including perfectlyprivate.com. Mr. Parker, the insurance executive, admits to a touch of paranoia in protecting his privacy. ''O.K., so I read too many Tom Clancy novels,'' he said. But he added that he took comfort in knowing that the government was looking to many of the security and privacy technologies he was interested in in gearing up to fight cyberterrorism. ''That's exactly why we have a major military command dedicated to both offense and defense in this area with a major emphasis on offense,'' he said. A little paranoia, it seems, might not be a bad thing. 