spyware24.txt
Bill Day wants a second chance.Day is chief executive of WhenU.com, a New York advertising company that used to smuggle its "spyware" computer programs onto millions of Internet computers. Spyware programs have long infuriated Internet users by installing themselves without permission, generating a flood of unwanted pop-up advertisements, and even preventing users from uninstalling the offending programs. "That's the legacy that we're trying to overcome," Day said. Battered by public outrage, WhenU hired Day in late 2004 to chart a new course for the company. Spyware is a $2 billion industry, according to the Internet infrastructure and security company VeriSign.But the enemies of spyware are on the march, and Day and some of his competitors say that Internet advertising companies have a small window of opportunity to change, or die. The U.S. Congress is working on legislation to crack down on spyware, while outraged citizens and officials like the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, have sued major spyware vendors. Meanwhile, StopBadware.org, a consortium formed by Harvard University's Berkman Center for Internet and Society and the Internet Institute at Britain's Oxford University, has begun a high-profile effort at consumer education on spyware. The organization, funded by several major technology companies, including Google and the giant Chinese computer maker Lenovo, tests suspected spyware, then issues detailed reports explaining exactly how the programs work and how they can be modified to make them less offensive. "We think of it as a neighborhood watch," said StopBadware's co- founder John Palfrey, a Harvard law school professor. The pressure seems to be working, as firms like WhenU.com have begun reforming their business practices. Spyware, also known as adware, became a plague in the late 1990s, as millions of people began using the Internet and businesses sought new ways to advertise to them. Some began offering free software that included embedded advertisements. Other companies took this a step further, writing software that would make the ads pop up whenever the user was working on the computer. Adware became known as spyware, because many of the programs track a person's Internet use and relay the data to the advertising company, which then displays relevant ads on people's computers. Many people consider that kind of monitoring to be an invasion of privacy, and resentment grew as the pop- up ads interrupted their work and slowed down computer performance. Instead of dealing directly with free software providers, spyware makers sometimes sign contracts with third- party distributors, who may share their programs with a host of unsavory clients. "They have back-room deals with all kinds of strange companies," including pornographers, said Dave Methvin, chief technology officer of PCPitstop.com, a popular Internet security Web site. The spyware vendor 180Solutions of Bellevue, Washington, recently came under fire when its software was found on a site that included child pornography. "We immediately cut ties with this company," said Steve Stratz, a spokesman for 180Solutions. "We've reported this incident to the appropriate authorities." York Baur, 180Solutions' executive vice president of business development, said his company was working hard to overhaul its image. Baur said that 180Solutions now dealt directly with the companies that bundle its software, to avoid a repetition of the child-porn incident.He also said that the software flashes a warning to users before it is installed, and afterward. Uninstalling the program is easy, said Baur, and the program does not collect any personal information about the user - just generic data about Web- surfing habits that it uses to select the appropriate ads. WhenU has gone even further, Day said. Its software does not transmit any information about the user at all. Instead, a piece of software on the Internet user's computer tracks his or her surfing style and decides what kinds of ads to display. The program then requests the right ads from the WhenU server. "All the information about you stays on your computer," Day said. Methvin thinks that the changes are a matter of survival for spyware vendors. According to the Internet Advertising Bureau, online ad revenue hit $12.5 billion last year, much of it from major consumer products companies. These world-class firms will not do business with advertising companies with a reputation for tacky ads that consumers hate. "The only way you're going to attract name-brand advertisers is to have a squeaky-clean reputation," said Methvin. But Methvin also predicted that the companies that really cleaned up were doomed, because if people had a choice, they would usually refuse to install advertising software. Day doesn't buy it. "Having users in there who don't want the software is of no use to me," he said. Day said he thought advertisers would be happy to reach a smaller group of Web surfers who actually want to see their ads. In any case, said Baur of 180Solutions, it was just a matter of time before U.S. and state governments outlawed old-school spyware. Anti-spyware laws are on the books in California, Arizona, and Utah. Congress has passed two bills to ban software that secretly installs itself and collects personal information without permission. 