spyware11.txt
When Robert Ellsworth sails to the mythical island of Velious to battle greedy dwarves and cast demonic spells, he just hates delays. Mr. Ellsworth, 30, of Poughkeepsie, N.Y., an avid player of the online game Everquest: The Scars of Velious, began to chafe over the time-consuming data exchanges between his PC and the game's home page. An inveterate and technically savvy game player, he suspected that personal data was being copied from his computer without his knowledge. Using a device called a sniffer, Mr. Ellsworth examined the data traveling over the Internet and discovered that the game's host, Verant Interactive, a division of Sony Online Entertainment, was collecting information about the other applications that were running on his computer. ''I was deeply disappointed by their actions,'' he said. ''I was concerned they could use this information to build a marketing profile for generating unwelcome marketing material.'' Mr. Ellsworth said he was now more vigilant about preserving his privacy. ''I have nothing to hide, but they should never do that without asking me for the information first,'' he said. Mr. Ellsworth was one of a group of dissatisfied players who complained to Verant about its data collection techniques. Verant says the concept underlying the data collection was misunderstood, that its purpose was to improve the game and guard against hackers. But surprised by the intensity of its customers' collective criticism, and facing a decline in business, Verant changed the policy. ''It really woke us up,'' said Verant's chief operating officer, John Smedley. The data from Mr. Ellsworth's computer was being collected by a bit of software known variously as a phone home program, an update agent, or, more menacingly, spyware. The programs are small applications, or applets, and they are embedded in software like Intuit's QuickBooks, Microsoft's Windows Me, Symantec's SystemWorks and many others. In their most innocuous configuration, the applets verify that the PC has the latest patches and fixes issued by the software vendor. By totally automating the updating process, update agents can save the PC owner time and effort. Sometimes, however, vendors use update agents to extract information about users, their Internet browsing habits or their PC's configuration, and transmit the information to a Web site when the user is online. The user is often unaware of the practice, although it may be acknowledged somewhere deep within the fine print of the license that users are supposed to read and accept before installation. ''In most cases, users are unaware that these update applets exist and what they are doing,'' said Mark Fabro, a senior scientist at Guardent in Waltham, Mass., a security services consultancy. ''When it comes to protecting their security and their privacy, what consumers don't know can hurt them.'' Mr. Fabro advises his clients to read the license agreement to discover what data the vendor will collect and what it will do with the data -- use it for technical support services or internal marketing initiatives, or sell it to another company. ''In the hands of a skilled marketer, personal information gathered by a phone home applet is a virtual treasure trove,'' said Bob Geiger, a computer security expert with Info-Defense, in Ardsley, N.Y. ''Stealth data collection is like having a telemarketer listen in on the speakerphone while you eat dinner with your family.'' Consumers can protect themselves by installing a second applet, called a personal firewall. This software gatekeeper watches the data entering or leaving a computer, and traps packets containing selected information that the user tells it to watch for -- telephone numbers, credit card information, names, addresses, and the like. In addition, a personal firewall will intercept data headed for Web sites of dubious repute. Personal firewall products include Symantec's Personal Firewall, Zone Lab's ZoneAlarm, McAfee's Firewall and Biodata's Sphinx. They typically cost about $30 and come configured with a list of off-limits Web sites to which consumers can easily add others. These firewalls, while simple to install and usually trouble-free, require some time to learn and add a modest cost. A no-cost solution is to disable the update agents, provided you can find the ''off'' switch. Shutting the applet down may require contacting the vendor to ask for detailed instructions on how to do it. But be forewarned: to remove the applet may necessitate removing and reinstalling the primary program. Taking the time to disable these applets or absorbing the cost of adding new software to counteract the unwelcome actions of your existing software is worth the effort, security experts say. ''ID checks, auto updates and related technologies are basically a back door into a customer's computer, and too many people have keys to that door,'' said Richard Smith, chief technology officer of the Privacy Foundation, which is based in Denver. The growing list of software vendors employing auto-update applets includes Real Networks, Intuit and Ontrack as well as the online game site Battle.net. The game site, operated by Blizzard, was accused of snooping into the PC's of players to retrieve configuration information including the player's name, browser and e-mail address as well files from competing gaming Web sites. Blizzard attributes it all to a misunderstanding, saying that its purpose was to improve customer service. Some software companies, including RealNetworks and Netscape, an America Online subsidiary, face class-action suits potentially involving hundreds of thousands of consumers as a result of their actions. Plaintiffs charge that the companies violated provisions in the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, which protects electronic communication against interception. Plaintiffs also charge violations of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, which prohibits unauthorized retrieval of data from a computer. RealNetworks and AOL have since changed their updating procedures and privacy policies. Johnathan Shub, a lawyer in Philadelphia who specializes in class-action computer litigation, suggests that consumers ''absolutely should not trust vendors with their confidential information.'' ''The economic value of the data and the ease of collecting makes it to hard to resist,'' he said. Mr. Shub added that he believes protecting the consumer's privacy from software companies will require congressional legislation. Several privacy protection bills are pending in Congress, including the Spyware Control and Privacy Protection Act sponsored by Senator John Edwards, Democrat of North Carolina. Some companies that formerly collected data in the background, such as Intuit, Verant and Netscape, now favor full disclosure. They now acknowledge that auto-update applets, even when running in the foreground, can benefit the vendor's interests as well as those of the consumer. ''The bottom line is that we cannot do anything without the public's full knowledge and compliance, even if it is well intended,'' said Mr. Smedley of Verant. ''You walk a fine line with privacy.'' 