spyware15.txt
As you no doubt know, while you surf the Net minding your own business, many Web sites put "cookies" on your hard drive so they can recognize you when you come back. These cookie files have created a lot of concern about privacy, but the fact is that most of them are useful and harmless. Then there are "spyware" programs that snoop around among your cookies, watch where you go and report on your Web-browsing habits. Advertisers say this allows them to tailor their messages to you and tell you about things that you're likely to be interested in. I've never been thrilled about this practice, and one of the reasons I stopped buying books from Amazon.com (besides the fact that you can almost always get the book cheaper somewhere else) is their much-vaunted "service" of suggesting books you might like based on what books you've bought. I'm uncomfortable when somebody is keeping track of what books I buy, though many friends, no less committed to civil liberties than I, tell me they're happy to hear about books they would have missed otherwise. Here's the trade-off: In exchange for something useful — Amazon.com calls your attention to books you'd like to read; your bank's Web site "recognizes" you, so you don't have to sign up for online banking from the beginning each time — you give up a bit of privacy. The Web is not anonymous, which on the whole is probably a plus. A few months ago I installed Adsubtract (www.adsubtract.com), a clever bit of software that blocks advertisements from appearing as you surf. Unfortunately, it doesn't block all the ads, but it does stop lots of them, and I am a satisfied user. There is a free version, but the Pro version for $29.95 is better and well worth it. Among other things, Adsubtract Pro keeps a list of all the Internet ads it has "subtracted," and the cumulative figures are startling. For me, the program blocks several hundred ads every few days. In addition, Adsubtract also has a very useful cookies feature. It displays all of the cookies on your hard drive, color-coded to show the ones you like, which are in green, and the purely commercial ones put there by "spy" programs like Doubleclick or Radiate (formerly Aureate), which are red. It lets you get rid of the bad ones without touching the good ones. Absubtract is the easiest anti-cookie program I have used. The others I've tried get rid of all the cookies indiscriminately, which you are reminded of the first time you go back to what had been a familiar Web site. It doesn't know you any more, and you have to sign up again. Adsubtract solves that problem. It lets you pick and choose among the cookies, and its color-coding suggests which ones to eliminate. For Mac users, Magic Cookie Monster (download.at/drjsoftware) offers similar features. It's free. If you'd like to see which spyware programs are sitting in your computer's memory and reporting on you, there is an excellent free program called Ad-Aware that will scan your hard drive, tell you what's there and, at your request, remove the ones you don't want. It comes from Lavasoft and can be downloaded from their Web site, www.lavasoftusa.com. Here, too, you should be aware that letting the spyware watch and report on your surfing is the price of using the "free" software that it is attached to. Gator, for example, which I wrote about a couple of weeks ago, doesn't use cookies but is nonetheless flagged by Ad-Aware as spyware. Gator fills in your name and password at Web sites that require them, and in exchange, it keeps track of the things you seem to be interested in and sends you advertising pegged to those interests. If you disable the spying feature, Gator will no longer do its trick with your passwords. Many free programs are supported by similar advertising and marketing arrangements. There is a list of 850 programs that contain spyware that is maintained by Gilles Lalonde of Laval, Quebec, at available on the Web at www.infoforce.qc.ca/spyware/enknownlistfrm.html. So all computer users must decide for themselves how much privacy they are willing to give up in exchange for a goody. In a sense, this issue was inaugurated by the widespread use of consumer credit cards, which enabled marketers to keep track of people's spending habits. But the much greater scope and reach of the World Wide Web and its much greater information-gathering abilities heighten the potential rewards and dangers. The purveyors of spyware programs readily point out that their privacy policies are posted online and all users must agree to the terms and conditions, which are spelled out at the start. Of course, few people read all the fine print, and even if they do, it's not always clear what they're agreeing to. One of the overarching annoyances about cookies is that virtually all Web browsers by default accept them without asking the user's permission. That should be reversed. Browsers should ask first, and Web sites should ask before sending cookies to your machine. The default condition throughout the Internet is to send and accept cookies, and the user has to "opt-out" to stop them. Marketers fear that if they give people the option, many will not understand the choice and say no. The European Parliament is considering legislation that would require opt-in, but there is much debate on the subject, and nothing is likely to be done soon. In the United States, several class-action suits about cookies are making their way through the courts. 