spyware18.txt
The European Union's proposal to protect Internet users from an unappetizing meal of cookies and spam has become a lot harder to digest than expected. The legislation has set off a raucous debate over online privacy issues pitting advertisers, Internet service providers, special interest groups and countries against one another. Which should surprise no one: The outcome of the legislation, which was first proposed more than a year ago and may take months more to pass, could affect how every Internet user in the Union feels about being online. "It's important to provide clear rules which we feel will stimulate the use of the Internet," said Per Haugaard, a spokesman for the European commissioner of information technology. Although the proposals include such hot buttons as when Internet companies should keep data for law enforcement agencies, the subjects that have aroused the fiercest debates are the silly sounding issues of spam and cookies. The commission wants to outlaw spam — random, unsolicited mass e-mailings pitching everything from credit cards to sex. The commission has proposed an "opt-in" law, whereby advertisers are barred from sending mail unless the user consents in advance. An "opt-out" system allows spam, but the user has the right to refuse future mail. When the proposal got to the European Parliament, it opted out of the issue altogether, deciding to allow individual countries to determine what system to impose. Finland, Denmark, Germany, Austria and Italy now employ the opt-in system to ban spam. "Even if we had a Europe-wide agreement, it wouldn't stop any charlatan going and setting themselves up in Indonesia and spamming everybody from Indonesia, or indeed, from Poland," said Graham Watson, a British Liberal Democrat who heads the European Parliament's committee on citizens' freedoms. This view is not shared by the European Coalition Against Unsolicited Commercial E-mail, an anti-spam lobby group. "Confirmed opt-in is the only way to go," said George Mills, the group's chairman. "People who are trying to keep the door open to spamming or sending to all and sundry are not completely in tune with the marketers who are playing the game at the moment." The marketers, he contends, are learning that having consumer trust is more important than throwing product names at them. Finding a solution is an example of the sort of stumbling blocks to regulating the Internet anywhere: The European Union may restrict service providers from giving away their subscribers' personal data, but spammers will find other methods of getting at it. While the short message system of cell phones was included by Parliament in the opt-in category, the potentially more troublesome issue of receiving e-mail on next-generation phones was not addressed. Cookies also had not been part of the commission's initial proposal, but Parliament, while debating the issue of storing Internet users' personal information, decided to restrict the use of cookies with the opt-in approach. Cookies are small files placed on Internet user's computers by Web sites for identification purposes. Cookies can tell how often a user visits a site, what purchases are made and which ads are viewed. Although they are meant only for the eyes of those who place them there, they may also be invaded by "spyware," which snoops out potential clients for other businesses. Parliament's move got advertisers going. "For advertisers, media owners and pretty much everyone connected, this is pretty bad news," said Danny Meadows-Klue, chairman of the Interactive Advertising Bureau in Britain. "Cookies are not the sinister spyware tool Brussels had made them out to be. They are just bits of text that allow a Web site to recognize its users when they return." Joe McNamee, EU-affairs spokesman for EuroISPA, a group that represents Europe's Internet service providers, emphasized that all sides simply want consumers to feel comfortable doing business on the Internet. To instill confidence on the cookie issue, he said, the Union should not go from one extreme to another as it has with spam, but should require that consumers be informed of exactly how cookies will be used. While the fight may be tough, the Union is aware that it could become a trailblazer on such issues for the rest of the world. "The main difference between the U.S. and Europe is that in the U.S. people say, 'Have a free-for-all and put the onus on companies that are involved to police themselves,"' Mr. Watson said. People in Europe are asking about its effect on civil liberties, he said. The commission will examine the Parliament's version of the directive, as will EU telecommunications ministers, on Dec. 6. 