DoS attack13.txt
Will the dogs eat the dog food? It is a way of wondering whether the customers will accept the product. And among the elite corps of Microsoft programmers who labor to turn out each new operating system, the dog food aphorism has become a way of life. But on the eve of the official release of Windows 2000, the software giant's first new business-oriented operating system in four years, PC power users like the venture capitalist Stewart Alsop must be giving the Microsoft Corporation pause. Last week at his desk on Sand Hill Road above Silicon Valley, Mr. Alsop sat with two portable computers. On one side of his desk was his old one, still running the crash-prone Windows 95, now a half-decade old. On the other sat his brand new Toshiba running Windows 98. As the rain pelted down on the Valley's green foothills last week, Mr. Alsop puzzled over why his just-out-of-the-box computer was crashing each time he attempted to change its screen resolution. Emphatically, he said he had no desire to try to master yet another operating system any time soon. ''I'm not happy,'' Mr. Alsop said. ''Computers used to be fun.'' And that, in a nutshell, is the chasm Microsoft must cross as it endeavors to switch business users, large and small, to a new, more powerful operating system that it says offers a host of benefits, ranging from added stability for mission-critical business centers to better power management for battery-hungry laptops. Last week, a growing rumbling among early users and analysts suggested that Windows 2000 might not be a runaway success. The company's stock fell nearly 6 percent on Friday, closing at $99.9375, after a Gartner Group report indicated that a significant number of existing programs used by large corporations would not be compatible with Microsoft's new operating system. Moreover, on Thursday night, during a conference call held by Dell Computer to discuss earnings with analysts, the company's founder and chairman, Michael S. Dell, threw more cold water on the Windows 2000 launch, saying Dell did not expect a big boost in the near future from sales of the new operating system. ''We don't see a massive immediate acceleration due to Windows 2000,'' he said. Still, Microsoft has faced a skeptical media and industry numerous times before, and the company has almost always managed to outpace expectations. On Thursday, at a planned gala in San Francisco, Microsoft will officially introduce what are in fact four different operating systems aimed at different markets: desktop office users, Internet and other network server applications, and four months hence, a data center version that for the first time will permit Microsoft to compete in the very high end of the computer business. Windows 2000 boasts a huge array of advanced features -- the user document describing the product is 253 pages -- intended to put Microsoft on an even footing with the Unix operating systems that dominate corporate back offices. That market is one that Microsoft has long coveted. Indeed, during the past three years, Microsoft's new chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, has frequently sketched for reporters the company's strategy for attacking Sun Microsystems, the leading Unix computer vendor. Microsoft has long believed that by riding on a wave of ''commodity'' computer hardware -- the vast Intel-based PC industry -- it would be able to push its operating systems both up and down the computer industry food chain. To do that, it has continuously developed and expanded its operating systems, from the original MS-DOS, which was quickly cobbled together for the first I.B.M. PC in the early 1980's, through Windows 3.0, 95, 98, NT, CE and, now, 2000. Each version was aimed at a different market. But until now, the high-end computer market has eluded the giant. Sun Microsystems was quick to discover the Internet and exploit its market potential for selling servers and server software, and Solaris, its version of the Unix operating system, now has an inside position on most of the nation's largest e-commerce servers. That has been a significant advantage for Sun, the Mountain View, Calif., computer maker that was founded to manufacture technical work stations in the early 1980's. Now, however, analysts who are optimistic about Microsoft's chances at the high end of the computer industry believe that the software publisher will finally make significant inroads against its Unix rivals.. ''Windows 2000 acceptance will be very, very large,'' predicted Mark Anderson, a computer industry analyst and president of Technology Alliance Partners. ''The replacement rate'' of Unix-based systems, he said, ''will go to four-to-one or better.'' Underscoring Mr. Anderson's optimism is a feature list for Windows 2000 that begins with its ability to handle larger tasks -- in industry parlance, ''to scale'' -- running on computers based on as many as 32 processors. Such systems have increasingly replaced mainframe computers during the past decade and are now used extensively in corporate computing centers. However, Microsoft's most pressing problem in the new corporate computing market is that it must convince corporate computing managers that Windows is an effective alternative to an increasingly stable and scalable opponent: Linux, the free version of Unix that has recently begun to gain adherents in corporate settings. Microsoft counters the free Linux argument by saying that the price of an operating system represents only a tiny portion of the total cost of ownership for a complete computer system. ''The cost of the software is a rounding error that can't be the major deciding factor,'' said Jeff Price, group product manager for Microsoft Windows. However, some financial analysts say that Linux's inroads will make it difficult for Microsoft to expand its 38 percent share of the corporate computer server market as rapidly as it was able to grow its Windows 95 and Windows 98 consumer markets. And slowing growth could hurt the larger Microsoft financial machine, which has operated as a growth engine for two decades. For their part, Sun executives say that despite Microsoft's aggressive advertising, it has not developed a product that can find the sweet spot of the growing Internet server market. ''They're out telling the world they're going to burn our house down, but they don't realize we've moved,'' said Anil Gadre, vice president and general manager of Sun's Solaris operating system division. Sun executives say that Microsoft's assertion that its 32-processor version will match Sun's performance is premature. Not only will the data-center version of Windows 2000 not appear until later this year, but Sun is already far more scalable, delivering clusters of up to eight 128-processor systems. Whatever the outcome of the battle for the very high end of the computer industry, Microsoft is planning to spend as much as $200 million to convince corporate America that Windows 2000 is the right operating system. But the company does not appear to be playing to a wildly enthusiastic audience. ''It's not the greatest operating system on a variety of accounts, but it's good enough,'' said Brian Livingston, co-author of ''Windows 2000 Secrets'' (IDG Books Worldwide, 2000). And therein may lie Microsoft's biggest challenge this year: Convincing computer users like Mr. Alsop that ''good enough'' is worth the time and effort of the upgrade. 