DoS attack11.txt
DESTINATIONS EVERY weekday around lunchtime, cars cram into the little parking lot in front of Meson Espanol, a Spanish restaurant on Kennedy Boulevard in West New York. Inside, a gaggle of hungry men hover around the bar, waiting for a spot to eat. They are local lawyers, barbers, contractors, all of Hispanic descent. They come because they are hungry, but they also come for camaraderie. At noon when the customers start coming, the restaurant always has plenty of tables available, but none of the regulars would consider sitting at one. The bar is where the action is. Here a diner can sit with his bowl of cocido -- the Spanish meat and vegetable stew that is the Thursday special -- order a glass of wine and enjoy food, fellowship and the comfort of an attentive bartender. Lunchtime has come to Hudson County. Along Kennedy Boulevard and its sister road, Bergenline Avenue, which cut through West New York and Union City, thousands are patronizing temples to authentic Cuban, Colombian and Spanish cuisine. For most, the meal is quick and cheap. You can walk into a cafeteria on Bergenline, drop $5, and leave less than a half hour later happily full. For others, a slightly pricier meal is in order. But for all, there's never a reason to leave the neighborhood. The best is just around the corner. Here is a handful of favorites. Dos Amigos Who can argue with a nice steak sandwich? That's all this tiny place serves; a regular is $3, a large is $4. Walk in, place an order at the counter, buy yourself a tropical fruit shake, and take a seat at one of the small tables. Look on the wall at the baseball trophies and the pictures of local children, but not for long. Sooner or later, a little plate of goodness will slip through the slot in the wall, destined for your table. One bite and you'll know why Dos Amigos bills itself ''El Rey de la Pan de Bistec.'' A nice bonus for out-of-town visitors: A free hour of parking in the garage next door. El Artesano On my first visit, I was transfixed by the cook working behind the Plexiglas window just inside the front doors. His hands flew, pulling together sliced roast pork, thick ham, cheese slices, golden buns and a thinly sliced gigantic pickle -- essential ingredients for a sandwich Cubano. For $3.75 you can savor one of la isla's classic imports. Pressed in a hot iron to melt the cheese, the sandwich reaches you radiating warmth, its bread still deliciously soft and squishy. Another favorite here is the croqueta preparada ($3), a sandwich stuffed with, well, stuffing. Like French croquettes, ingredients like meat, cheese, and spices are combined with bread crumbs, formed into a ball, cooked and served in still more bread. (A friend calls them bread sandwiches.) Finding the place shouldn't be hard. If you're heading down 42nd Street from Kennedy Boulevard, look for the metered parking lot with a festive mural. The mural is painted on El Artesano's rear wall. Pollos a La Brasa Mario Looking like something off a Colombian plantation, the booths in this corner restaurant sit on raised platforms shielded by terra cotta-covered porch roofs. A couple of faux tropical trees sprout from the tiled floor, for an effect that's out of place but somehow charming. Pollos calls itself, in Colombian dialect, El Palacio de los Frisoles, the Palace of Beans, but tasty rotisserie chicken is its mainstay. No fewer than eight chicken specials grace the menu, and not one is over $9. The basic chicken platter comes with white rice, a simple salad, a quarter chicken, french fries and a bowl of chicken soup. Actually, it's chicken gizzard soup, with chunks of chewy hearts and giblets, carrots and potatoes swimming in a tempting yellow broth. If you're not in the mood for chicken, and are willing to overlook the beans, you can't go wrong with any of the daily soup specials. (There's no such thing as a simple soup at any of these restaurants -- all are hearty meals in a bowl.) At Pollos, if it's Monday, it must be meatball soup. On subsequent days, there's beef stew, beef tripe soup, green plantain soup, fish stew, hen stew and oxtail soup. Let the calendar, not the menu, be your guide. Union City Cafeteria If you're breezing through Union City early some morning, stop at this Spanish-Cuban diner for breakfast. Regulars know to sit at the pink-and-turquoise counter for their morning hot chocolate and their churros, buttery sweet sticks of fried dough that are a pleasure to dunk and eat. Each day, the cafeteria whips up about 15 different specials. Most days, nothing is over $6. There's the Galician dish, caldo gallegos, a rich soup of pork, beef and white beans. Come Sunday, goat stew with wine sauce beckons. During the week there's fried pork chunks and shredded beef, or main dishes of red beans, black beans or corn casserole. And if you simply must have something familiar to finish it off, don't worry. The Jell-O is always cooling its heels in the revolving dessert case. Meson Espanol Meson Espanol, just up the block on Kennedy Boulevard, may be off the beaten path, and slightly pricier, but I include it because it's hard to beat its Spanish cuisine and the welcoming atmosphere at the bar. The sangria-and-paella set will be perfectly happy here, but cognoscenti know to ask for specials. In winter, usually late in the week, there are two perfect stews: fabada, a smoky stew of salted pork, blood sausage, chorizo and lima beans infused with the flavors of meat; and cocido, a favorite in Madrid, packed with chickpeas, pork, chorizo, beef, chicken, carrots, and cabbage. One bowl, say the guys at the bar, is a whole meal. If you prefer to go the tapas route, consider the boquerones a la vinegreta, tender fish preserved in vinegar and served on a bed of tomatoes, onions, green peppers and slices of pimiento de piquillo, excellent roasted peppers from Pamplona. Take your seafood fork in hand and attack the cigalas a la plancha, halved and grilled shellfish that are larger, meatier cousins of shrimp. Still hungry? Ask for the lamb a la besugo, with sliced garlic and red peppers. It will come tender, juicy, and savory. Dessert? Coconut flan, of course. But share it. Lunch is almost over, and you have to get back to work. Dos Amigos, 5300 Bergenline Avenue (53rd Street), West New York; (201) 348-2255. El Artesano, 4101 Bergenline Avenue (41st Street), Union City; (201) 867-7341. Meson Espanol, 57th Street and Kennedy Boulevard, West New York; (201) 865-5880. Pollos A La Brasa Mario, 4115 Bergenline Avenue, (42nd Street), Union City; (201) 601-2533. Union City Cafeteria, 4116 Bergenline Avenue, (between 41st and 42nd Streets), Union City; (201) 863-3058. 