DoS attack24.txt
Despite the endless May showers, Memorial Day weekend — the unofficial start to summer — is within reach. And with it comes the sound of barbecues being fired up. This got us wondering: What are the rules for grills and bonfires around the city? We asked the Fire Department to set the record straight. The open burning of wood — as in a campfire or fire pit you might see on a beach — is a hard no in all five boroughs. There are certain exceptions, though, said Frank Dwyer, a Fire Department spokesman, including portable barbecues and some areas in city parks that have been given the green light by the Parks Department. Certain types of barbecues are permitted on apartment terraces, balconies and rooftops, but they are not allowed on fire escapes, and the rules vary between residential and commercial spaces. Standard backyard barbecues — with one or two 20-pound propane tanks, and a grate area of not more than 10 square feet, Mr. Dwyer said — are allowed only at one- and two-family dwellings. Smaller, hibachi-style propane barbecues are allowed on apartment terraces, balconies and, where occupancy is allowed, rooftops. Propane barbecues are not allowed in commercial spaces. Charcoal, electric, and piped natural gas barbecues (when installed properly and legally) are also allowed on all three types of premises, Mr. Dwyer added, as long as standard fire safety measures are observed. No permit is needed if you’re using a portable barbecue allowed by the fire code. You’ll just need to follow standard fire safety requirements, like keeping water or a portable fire extinguisher close by. But piped natural gas installations, like grills or fire pits, require and approval from the Department of Buildings. “Summer or winter,” Mr. Dwyer added, “make sure you have a working smoke alarm and carbon monoxide alarm inside your home.” Here’s what else is happening: Showers are likely throughout the day, with a . The rest of the week is looking wonderful and warmer. Memorial Day weekend is a tossup. (For now.) Mayor Bill de Blasio is looking to Canada, a pioneer in the fight for safe injection sites, for guidance on shaping the city’s approach to the opioid crisis. [ ] The New York Police Department is investigating a second sexual assault complaint against the celebrity chef Mario Batali. [ ] A survivor of Halloween’s deadly truck terror attack reflects on the tragedy and on escaping death. [ ] Leecia R. Eve, a former top aide to Hillary Clinton and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, is entering the race for New York attorney general. [ ] Writers — and readers — from the Bronx communed at the borough’s inaugural book festival. [ ] Charles and Murray Kushner, famously estranged brothers, are each betting they can transform a gritty section of Jersey City. [ ] Interview magazine, the culture and arts publication founded by Andy Warhol in 1969, has shut down. [ ] Manhattanhenge returns next week. Here’s where to see it. [ ] A “Little Haiti” district is coming to the Flatbush section of Brooklyn. [ ] Freelance workers have recovered $254,866 owed to them over the past year, thanks to a new city law. [ ] It’s festival season! Here are some local theater festivals to catch this summer. [ ] Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “ ” For a global look at what’s happening, see . The New York Times and the Parks Department present “ ,” an exhibit of long-forgotten photographs from 1978, at in Central Park. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays through June 14, closed Memorial Day. [Free] Learn about with GreenThumb at the in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. 5:30 p.m. [Free] Laurie Anderson, Anne Waldman and others celebrate with a reading and discussion at the New York Public Library in Midtown. 7 p.m. [Free, R.S.V.P.] The restaurateur Danny Meyer and the chef Ruth Rogers talk hospitality, the convergence of art and dining, and future plans at the on the Upper East Side. 7 p.m. [$29] Looking ahead: On Thursday, hosts a talk and screening of “The Fourth Estate,” a film about the New York Times journalists covering the Trump presidency. 7 p.m. [$50, ] Mets host Marlins, 7:10 p.m. (SNY). Yankees at Rangers, 8:05 p.m. (YES). Alternate-side parking is until Monday. For more events, see The New York Times’s . One hundred and fifty years ago, the Brooklyn Flint Glass Company was tugged through New York’s waterways to Corning, N.Y., transforming an upstate town 215 miles northwest of Manhattan into an artistic hub for glassmaking. (The company became Corning Glass Works.) To celebrate the anniversary, the has set up a floating glassmaking studio, GlassBarge, off Pier 5 at Brooklyn Bridge Park. It’s holding free glassblowing demonstrations daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., through Memorial Day. You can . Educators from the South Street Seaport Museum and Lake Champlain Maritime Museum will also be on deck to talk about life along New York’s 19th-century canals and how the waterways played a role in — and continue to support — state commerce and culture. [ .] After its run in Brooklyn, the barge will travel up the Hudson River and along the Erie Canal, homeward bound, making nearly 30 stops before September. You can . 