transcript N/A and PARIS — A new propaganda video from the militant group Islamic State shows three French fighters calling on Muslims in France to carry out attacks there or join the group’s fight in Iraq and Syria, according to a jihadist monitoring organization. The seven-minute film, released on Wednesday by Al Hayat Media Center, an affiliate of the Islamic State, also shows what appear to be French jihadist fighters burning their French passports. The video appears to be part of an intensifying propaganda effort by the Islamic State, also known as or ISIL, to use foreign fighters to recruit members and to encourage the spread of violence. The video was publicized by the SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors extremist groups’ communications. On Thursday, the Paris prosecutor’s office opened a criminal investigation of three suspects on terrorism charges. “Investigators will determine who these people are,” said Agnès Thibaut-Lecuivre, the spokeswoman for the prosecutor’s office. The release of the video came after the French authorities citizens, Michaël Dos Santos and Maxime Hauchard, as recruits who had appeared with their faces uncovered in the prologue of a gruesome video released on Sunday showing a , Peter Kassig. In the past, the Islamic State has sought to conceal the identity of its members, who are often shown with their faces covered. Its increasing use of foreign fighters in its propaganda messages seems calculated to appeal to disenchanted youth in Europe. Analysts say some young people are drawn to the Islamic State through a mix of adolescent rebelliousness and the group’s slickly produced recruitment videos. In the new video, several men who appear to be French are shown with their faces visible, tossing their passports into a bonfire. “There has appeared between us and you animosity and hatred forever until you believe in Allah alone,” says one masked man, speaking in French. “You have oppressed us, fought our religion, and insulted our prophet. And today, we disbelieve in you and your passport and if you come here we will fight you.” The video has both English and Arabic subtitles. France has been shaken by the revelation that Mr. Dos Santos and Mr. Hauchard come from non-Muslim families and appear to have joined the Islamic State on their own initiative, freely traveling to Syria. Mr. Dos Santos, 22, the Roman Catholic son of Portuguese immigrants, lived in a working-class area east of Paris before becoming an Islamic State recruit. Mr. Hauchard, 22, who grew up in a village in Normandy, comes from a middle-class family and converted to Islam at age 17, under the influence of jihadist websites. More than 1,000 French citizens have left or plan to leave to join the ranks of jihadist groups in Syria or Iraq, according to the French Ministry of the Interior. Experts in Islamic radicalism say that a growing minority of them include disenchanted youth from non-Muslim families. France is participating in the United States-led airstrikes against the Islamic State in Iraq, and has been singled out by the Islamic State as one of its key enemies in the West. The French government recently introduced a law preventing those suspected of trying to join jihadist groups from leaving the country. 