DoS attack18.txt
The murderer is mute, his eyes distant, as the familiar sounds of prayer and desperation rise from the world's largest prison into the inky sky of a swift tropical dusk. It has been a long time now, more than five years of incarceration, long enough for Leandro Luis Bernardo Dias to learn the ways of this prison seething with more than 7,200 people: the suspicion, the drugs, the betrayals, the stabbings, the AIDS, the hymns that come at close of day and the cries of protest that announce the night. ''This is a shadowy place,'' Mr. Dias, 25, said, stirring from his reverie. ''Fear lives inside every prisoner. Anyone who denies that is lying. Fear of the violence. Fear of this all-male darkness. Fear you will never get out. But I talk to God every day and ask him to see me through.'' Faith, the other face of despair, is alive behind the high walls of Carandiru prison. It is written in the tattoos of Christ the Savior on the backs of countless inmates. Such images were held by slaves to provide protection against beatings. Brazil's slaves have gone, but not the violence of social conflict that has pushed the number of homicides a year in Sao Paulo up to more than 8,500 -- ''an undeclared civil war,'' in the words of Luiz Carlos dos Santos, a social worker, and a rate of killing now over 10 times that in the five New York boroughs. Call Carandiru the underside of Brazil's startling development over the past decade. As the country has opened to the world, new possibilities have opened up for many people. But here in its economic capital, violence has also soared as the arrival of new luxury goods has made the gulf between rich and poor ever more glaring. Mr. Dias is one of the many killers. Back in 1994, offended in an argument, he strangled a man. Then he dumped the body in the River Tiete, which crosses Sao Paulo state, regularly flooding this vast city. ''I am very determined in what I do,'' he said. ''And I was in the murder too.'' Case closed. Leandro Dias has admitted killing Alirio Soares on July 28, 1994. Who could safely say no further menace lies in those sullen eyes and powerful arms, this damaged life? But two days spent with Mr. Dias inside Carandiru, and an investigation of the murder, suggest a more nuanced story of personal redemption. This young killer's story is also one that speaks of Brazil's skewed development, its abject poverty, its social crisis and its unmistakable message that life is cheap. Nowhere cheaper than in crumbling Carandiru itself. Here, on Oct. 2, 1992, military police officers called in to quash a rebellion massacred 111 prisoners. Years of investigation have yielded no explanation and no prosecutions. The chronic overcrowding that lay behind the uprising has not abated. ''We should have 5,000 prisoners in here, instead of over 7,000,'' said Mauricio Guarnieri, the director of Carandiru. ''Everyone has a bed, but sometimes we have 15 to a cell. The problem is we have put up 21 prisons in Sao Paulo state in recent years, with a total capacity of 18,000, and they are all full. We cannot keep pace with the rising crime.'' Carandiru, a legendary complex of seven blocks, sprawls across a central area of the world's third-largest city, home to 17 million people, 20 percent of them slum residents. Helicopters ferrying executives to work in the glimmering high-rises of the Avenida Paulista crisscross the sky above shanties rank with the stench of sewage. In this almost surreal context, the revolver has emerged as the most powerful social leveler. ''The most visible social difference used to be between a Volkswagen Beetle and some locally produced sedan,'' said Marco Vinicio Petrelluzzi, the city's top official for public security. ''Now it's between the same old Beetle and an imported Ferrari. Globalization has brought new models of consumption relentlessly pushed on TV. And for many, crack and crime are the only route to coveted goods.'' A Difficult Childhood One of six children, Mr. Dias grew up dirt-poor in the dismal Brasilandia section of Sao Paulo. His father was an occasional house painter; his mother did odd jobs as a maid and a ticket inspector on buses. Despite hardship, he was a good student, never repeating a year of school. ''Things were all right growing up,'' he said. ''But in that environment, you quickly understand how easy the access is to drugs and weapons. And I was intrigued by that world, especially after my Dad was killed and things fell apart.'' The young man's eyes retreated again, to some distant point of pain. Asked about the fate of his father, he replied in a matter-of-fact way: ''Yes, my father was killed by my aunt. She stabbed him in her kitchen when I was 12 years old.'' Fatima Bernardo Dias still lives in the two rooms perched on a hill where her imprisoned son grew up. As in many Brazilian favelas, or slums, the view is a fine one, out to the lush hills beyond the city. But the immediate reality is one of grit and struggle. ''We've always battled to eat,'' she said. On one wall of the kitchen that now doubles as her youngest son's bedroom, she has hung a heart carved in wood and sent from Carandiru prison. Dated July 6, 1996, it says simply: ''To the best mother in the world, from her son Leandro.'' Beside the heart is an image of the Last Supper with the words: ''Where there is faith, there is love. Where there is love, there is peace. Where there is peace, there is God. Where there is God, nothing is lacking.'' Life has not been that simple. Fatima's late husband, Jose, sometimes turned violent when drunk. Once, mad with jealousy, he went for her with a screwdriver. Twice they separated; two of her six children were born to other men. But the marriage survived and Jose was always particularly close to the couple's first son, Leandro. So when Jose was killed, the effects were traumatic on his young son. ''Leandro would sometimes look at photographs of his father and vow to take revenge,'' Mrs. Dias said. ''He told me he would hunt down his aunt.'' The exact circumstances of Jose's death remain sketchy, but this much has been established: during an altercation in which Jose may have struck his sister, Jane, she stabbed him with a kitchen knife. He died soon afterward of an internal hemorrhage. Nothing unusual in this, just another death in a Brazilian slum, where a one-dollar debt on a crack deal or a stolen pair of sneakers may be enough to extinguish a life. ''Death has become entirely banal,'' said Regina Pastrana, a social worker. Jane Dias said that she acted in self-defense and had been cleared of any crime. A hairdresser today, with a defiant air, she added, ''Of course, nobody's conscience can be entirely at peace in a country with this many problems.'' With his father dead, those problems crowded in on Leandro Dias. He had to leave school to find a job to support his mother. He started as an office boy. His mother recalls him returning home with his first salary still sealed in an envelope for her. But her son soon became more capricious. He would disappear at night without saying where he was going. Fatima warned the adolescent boy: We are poor but what we have we have earned; God wants our hands and our souls to be clean. The advice fell on deaf ears. At the age of 15, Mr. Dias found himself with a gun in his hand for the first time. The power of it, the adrenaline rush, remain vivid. ''Things started small,'' he recalled. ''Rob the bakery. Rob the corner shop. How else was I going to have a nice car, nice clothes?'' Deeply worried, Fatima decided to move the family in early 1994. Her father owned a tiny shack in the country, up the River Tiete, about 40 miles from Sao Paulo. It was a difficult place to survive the nearest store was a 10-mile walk -- but it seemed safe. With reluctance, Leandro Dias followed. He took occasional work as a farmhand. He also helped the family by milking the cow of an aging, solitary, often drunken caretaker named Alirio Soares, who minded an estate and would pay him with some of the milk. One day, after he had been drinking with a friend, Mr. Dias arrived late to milk the cow. The old man, who carried a knife and had rum on his breath, started to insult him. ''I was not going to be a victim of my own hesitation,'' Mr. Dias recalled. He went for Mr. Soares, grasping the man's neck with his large hands, squeezing the life from his victim with what he now calls a ''crazed, unjustifiable rage that started with a row over a bucket of milk.'' Casting the stripped body into the muddy brown water, he believed the river would take it. But the corpse caught on a bank, where it was found several days later by a local policeman, Claudio Cruz. ''Shocking in this quiet environment,'' Mr. Cruz said. It is true that the gently swirling river, the grazing horses, and the dense green vegetation at the spot seem utterly alien to violence. Mr. Dias fled, back to Sao Paulo. He fell in with some Korean smugglers, but a dispute over payments quickly led to more violence. On Oct. 24, 1994, Mr. Dias injured one of the Koreans in a knife attack. Just over a month later, he was arrested while at work on a building site in Sao Paulo. At 20, he had already been on the streets for eight years. Mr. Dias confessed to the murder, believing his claim that he acted in self-defense would be recognized. After being sentenced to 23 years in prison, Mr. Dias was escorted into the labyrinth of Carandiru, a prison large enough to resemble a detention camp. So began what he now calls ''my descent into a very dark place.'' Misery Behind Bars The prisoner took down his pants, revealing his genitals. One testicle was swollen to the size of a large orange. The doctor, Drauzio Varella, examined the condition, shaking his head. He works on the first floor of Carandiru's Block Five by the light of a naked bulb hung from the crumbling ceiling of a windowless room with no sink. ''Uncomfortable, but not life-threatening,'' Dr. Varella muttered, as he handed the prisoner some pills, and the next patient, Danilo Silva dos Santos, shuffled in, his skin covered in spots. Mr. dos Santos, like about 15 percent of the inmates of Carandiru, is H.I.V.-positive. He also has tuberculosis, a skin infection, only one kidney, and three bullets in his body, mementos of the day police officers opened fire on him. ''I was dealing crack to pay the rent,'' said Mr. dos Santos, 19. ''My friend fired on the police, and they fired back.'' He clutched his side, looked the doctor in the eye, and said, ''I cannot stand the pain.'' After a decade making weekly visits to Carandiru, Dr. Varella has seen everything in Mr. Dias's ''dark place.'' He labors without laboratory support and in the knowledge that his only hope of getting a prisoner into a hospital is to report, ''Immediate risk to life.'' ''The problem is simple: This society produces bandits much faster than it can produce prisons,'' Dr. Varella said. ''The main reasons are inequality, police corruption and impunity. Of every 30 violent crimes in the city, one is brought to justice. The situation is out of control.'' On the top floor of Block Five is the maximum-security zone, where prisoners regarded as a threat to others, or menaced with death themselves because of unpaid drug debts, are locked up. Once a week, on Saturday morning, they are allowed into a yard for exercise. The rest of the time, they are often to be heard beating on walls, drumming on saucepans or crying out. But these sounds are mere background noise, no more notable than Muzak to the prisoners, dressed in khaki, who lie slumped at the base of yellowish walls gazing into space. Many faces look stunned beyond feeling. ''Perhaps 90 percent of the prisoners arrive here on drugs,'' said Carlos Alberto Salce, who helps organize teams of workers in the prison. ''They have nothing to believe in -- not family, not society, nothing. They let go.'' Dr. Varella encourages them to hang on. To an H.I.V.-positive transvestite who uses the female name of Soninha Timo and is suffering from muscular problems caused by a body-changing injection of industrial silicone, he gives straightforward instructions: ''Stop using crack, because it makes everything worse.'' Mr. Dias knows well how dangerous the drugs are. When he entered the prison in 1994, it seemed to him that only crack could provide him with the oblivion he craved. ''I was without hope,'' he said. The Oblivion of Drugs Life was reduced to the repetitive quest for the drug. It was in plentiful supply -- ''the drugs do not come from the sky with the rain, they come through the people who work here,'' Mr. Dias said. But finding the money to pay for them was another matter. A ''pedra,'' or single dose of crack, costs about one dollar inside the prison. Mr. Guarnieri, the prison director, has no illusions about underpaid prison employees' role as the conduit. ''We know what's happening, but it's very hard to stop,'' he said. Public employees in Brazil, like the 800 Carandiru prison workers and the Sao Paulo police, often receive very low salaries that encourage corruption. But because states and municipalities are heavily indebted, and because federal regulations generally make it impossible to cut staff through firing, the situation festers. Mr. Dias scrambled to survive. He saw several prisoners die in disputes over drugs, generally stabbed. With miniature saws smuggled into Carandiru, some inmates contrive sharp implements out of metal cut from window bars. The prison murder rate runs at about 30 a year. For Mr. Dias's mother, the anxiety was overwhelming. She recalled the insistent requests from her son. Mother, I need $40. Mother, I need $20. Mother, I ''smoked'' my friend's television set -- used it to pay a drug debt -- and owe him $200. By tomorrow. She borrowed money herself to pay these debts. On the last occasion, in the summer of 1996, she went to the prison on her birthday to deliver the cash and was greeted by another angry prisoner who said: ''It was only out of respect for you that I did not bring you the head of your son, Leandro.'' She pleaded with her son once more. He replied: ''Mother, believe me, pay this, and I will never cause you hardship again.'' She was naturally skeptical, but Mr. Dias has been true to his word. A New Beginning It is now almost four years since Mr. Dias quit drugs, found faith and began the attempt to remake his life. He works as the leader of a group of 142 prisoners who make posters, calendars, kites and other products for a Sao Paulo company. Every three days worked inside the prison earns one day off his sentence. He is organized, brisk in his instructions and movements. Mr. Salce, the prison employee, calls Mr. Dias ''a model for others.'' Mr. Dias's tiny cell is neatly ordered, with a mattress on a ledge beneath the window and a small television in a corner. A photograph of a little girl is prominently displayed. ''She is my hope,'' he said. The girl, a 1-year-old, is Mr. Dias's daughter, Sabrina dos Santos Bernardo Dias, a pretty thing with curly hair and smudgy brown eyes. She was conceived in this cell during one of the ''visitas intimas'' -- ''intimate visits'' -- allowed every two weeks. The mother, Ana Celia dos Santos, 32, was visiting a brother-in-law in the prison when she met Mr. Dias. She now lives in a small apartment not far from Mr. Dias's home in Brasilandia. She has five children, by several different men. The latest, Mr. Dias's daughter, sits on her lap. ''Leandro is obsessed by this little girl,'' she said. ''He is so affectionate to her, and he promises that one day he will take us all to a quiet place.'' That place is not Sao Paulo. If Mr. Dias has changed, his hometown has not. Col. Jose Vicente, the former chief of security for Sao Paulo state, said attempts to fight crime continued to be frustrated by disorganization and outdated methods. ''We are working with a law code from the 1940's,'' he said. ''We are not allowed to do sting operations. Justice is painfully slow. We cannot use videos as evidence. We have 83,000 military police and 35,000 civil police. So in most situations, you have two chiefs, two cars, two bureaucracies, and no results.'' Even working every day and maintaining his model behavior, Mr. Dias probably faces another 15 years in Carandiru. He knows there are other prisoners who now regard him as a ''do-gooder'' and are out to get him. But he is determined. ''Now that I have a family,'' he said, ''I have to keep on the path I have set.'' His mother, Fatima, is sure that ''the violence has gone out of him now.'' She shows the last card from him, received from Carandiru. It reads, ''We need to be strong, trust in God, and continue struggling. I love you, Mom.'' Holding the card, Fatima Dias broke into tears. ''This,'' she said simply, ''is the dark side of my heart.'' 