DoS attack20.txt
A reader writes: The Web site has posted an account of a conversation with Dan Gerstein, and an e-mail from their webservices provider, confirming that Joe2006.com has been the victim of a denial of service attack. The campaign provided the TPMm reporter with the phone number of a company representative so that he could directly confirm that the web outage was the result of a malicious act, not a careless oversight. I think Gerstein goes a little far in blaming the Lamont camp for the outage – “Their supporters are doing these [attacks], we’ve demanded they get them to stop and they refuse to do it.” It’s not clear to me why Lamont should be held accountable for the actions of unaffiliated supporters, if that’s who’s behind this. On the other hand, the Lamont campaign was way, way out of line in using its own website to spread the entirely unsubstantiated (and now, demonstrably false) rumor that Joe hadn’t paid his bills. Their backing the allegation was enough to draw you – and other reporters – into the story. As you note, losing the website could have an adverse impact on the Lieberman campaign. It’ll be interesting to see how this sotry unfolds – win or lose, Lieberman is an influential and generally well-liked guy inside the beltway. DoS attacks can be traced, when federal authorities set their minds to it. Not only that, but I suspect that the perpetrator would be exposed to more serious civil rights charges, which could set an interesting precedent. I look forward to reading your follow-up blog item on the subject. A promised update has yet to be posted (and we don’t have the Web host’s name or number.) Comments are no longer being accepted. really, what good is a website on election day? So what else is new? My media person’s krightrightsradio with 500,000 hits/month was successfully attacked by hackers last week. Ned Lamont is finally calling off his DOS dogs. A day late and rather short on contrition, in our opinion. After last week’s stunt with his attack hound Jane Hamsher and the blackface picture she pulled at his request, it’s amazing that he would think he could escape responsibility for this one. Worse yet his campaign’s official line that his faithful pitbull bloggers reliably echoed was that the Lieberman campaign wasn’t paying the bills. Is it really that hard for to run a Whois query? Go to Type in joe2006.com or nedlamont.com and run a search. Jesus — it’s not that hard to figure out who to call. joe2006.com is hosted by . Their contact info is: It’s all public information: 69.56.129.130 Record Type: IP Address OrgName: ThePlanet.com Internet Services, Inc. OrgID: TPCM Address: 1333 North Stemmons Freeway Address: Suite 110 City: Dallas StateProv: TX PostalCode: 75207 Country: US ReferralServer: rwhois://rwhois.theplanet.com:4321 NetRange: 69.56.128.0 – 69.56.255.255 CIDR: 69.56.128.0/17 NetName: NETBLK-THEPLANET-BLK-6 NetHandle: NET-69-56-128-0-1 Parent: NET-69-0-0-0-0 NetType: Direct Allocation NameServer: NS1.THEPLANET.COM NameServer: NS2.THEPLANET.COM Comment: RegDate: 2003-06-10 Updated: 2003-09-29 Denial of service attacks have been around for more than a decade. There are ways to prepare for them and to protect your website from them. This kind of attack should only work against an unqualified or under-funded team. This was just a website. He is running for a roll as a leader of our country where the stakes are much higher. Given Lieberman’s support of the war in Iraq, which has created enemies, it would be encouraging if his team appeared to be more prepared. Whether you support Leiberman’s policies or not, this was his team’s error. And if anyone really, really needs to see the site, a simple Google cache gives you the barebones. Would the NY Times please educate their blog staff about the basic mechanics of the Internet? Or at least the World Wide Web? Things such as running a Whois query? Network block owners? Using Google as a resource in instances like this? Ahh, the new election fraud – web site hacking. You call this progress? The was updated: “Update: As many readers have noted, Dan Geary does not in fact work for the campaign’s web host, as Gerstein indicated. Geary is an internet consultant for Geary Internet Strategies who works for the campaign.” So the guy who wrote the email confirming they were hacked, who a Lieberman staffer claimed was from the web hosting company, was actually a web guy working for the Lieberman campaign. For some perspective on these kinds of attacks, kos writes: “Daily Kos is under constant Denial of Service attacks. Usually it just slows the site down, on rare instances, it actually brings it down for a few minutes. But then I have competent people working for me, and my web host is run by competent people who can fight off DoS attacks against their clients with little effort.” If you think that losing your ability to send out email during the last 24 hours of a campaign is “no big deal,” then you are clueless. There should be an investigation, and the attacker i.p. addresses should be identified, and the perps should be identified. Who is responsible? Is it just some teenager from Denmark, or perhaps someone a little closer to home? This is no joke. Sucks to be Joe, but seriously…his website crashing is quite symbolic. I am really excited to watch him get a GOP elected to CT when he decides, like a sore loser, to run as an I. Stoller has an email from a tech guy offering actual facts. Bottom line? It’s not a DoS attack, and Lieberman’s web company is incompetent. 1. Unless and until Lieberman’s hosting provider releases his logfiles (gateway router, www server, mail server, DNS server) for forensic review, all of this is speculation. 2. Using the following information: a. the site has been down for 18 hours b. email to (and from?) Joe2006.com addresses has been affected c. Joe2006.com and mail.joe2006.com resolve to IP 69.56.129.130 d. the reverse lookup on that IP is 82.81.3845.static.theplanet.com e. joe2006.com now forwards to suspended.page/ 3. It’s highly unlikely this is a true DoS of DDoS attack. This is because we can ping all the IPs noted above and we can see the page at …. page. If this was a real DoS or DDoS attack, we’d not be able to see any of this and their servers would not be answering their ping at an average of 50ms (millisecond) per packet. True attacks bring down servers, routers and networks. From all available outside evidence this does not appear to be the case. 4. Here what might have happened: a. Web traffic spikes as national focus on the campaign grows b. Based on (2b) above, if the webserver is throttled by traffic (due to actual traffic or poor response tuning or an attack or a combination of the three), this would also affect mail delivery to joe2006.com. It could also affect outbound mail if users on that domain use that address for SMTP service. c. The server is most likely a shared one, since the name, server1.myhostcamp.com, implies lots of other hosts live on it. 5. Regardless of the explanation (3 or 4), here is what you do when that happens: a. You grab your local backup (you do have a local backup of your files (both scripts and database snapshots, right?). b. You find a host that specialized in high bandwidth hosting and you get an account going ASAP. There are plenty of ISPs that would take your money to expedite this. c. You move your files up, test that everything is working d. You redirect your DNS so that Joe2006.com points to you new server; this change doesn’t take very long to propagate because you make sure that the DNS update uses a very low TTL (time to live). e. If needed, you separate your mailserver mail.joe2006.com from your webserver joe2006.com/www.joe2006.com so as to keep your mail up and going. Steps a-e can be accomplished, especially with the kind of site Joe had up and running before this incident (nothing particularly complex), in less than an hour or so by a competent sysadmin. Update: The Lamont campaign immediately offered its technical staff (they have competent ones) to the Lieberman campaign to help get their site back up. But the Lieberman campaign refused. Lieberman’s people aren’t interested in their lousy website working. They’re interested in one last smear. Sorry to all the conspiracy minded folks posting here. Dave Fischer’s comment above is dead-on. This isn’t a DOS attack. If it was a DOS, you couldn’t get to anything else on the server hosting joe2006.com. Wanna see for yourself on your Windows PC? Just choose Run from your Start Menu and type the following text: ping joe2006.com You’ll see a command window open up and three separate network “pings” will return very quickly from joe2006.com. If this was a DOS attack, you would not see anything returned from their server. And just like that, you’ll be a computer forensic expert! Indeed, you’ll be more of an expert than the Times or MSNBC or CNN has bothered to find. Again, sorry to those who want to believe in Leftist conspiracies. The simple fact is that the Lieberman campaign should’ve bought a real hosting service if they wanted their site to stay up on the day the whole country was watching. Of course, in some ways, this spins a better story. This blog is on hiatus. From May 2006 to June 2007, it covered government and politics in the New York region, supplementing our regular news coverage. The metropolitan staff now blogs about politics and other topics at the City Room blog. Please update your blogrolls, links and feeds, and join us there. Thanks. Attention: Please update your feed reader. The Empire Zone’s political coverage moved in June to Please update your RSS feeds, blogrolls and habits. Here is the URL for the new feed: //cityroom.blogs.nytimes.com/rss2.xml     