DoS attack23.txt
Democratic Party officials have come up with an idea on how to deal with an anniversary that falls in the midst of the midterm election campaign: they will suspend all television advertisements on behalf of Congressional candidates for 24 hours on Sept. 11. But asked today whether they would stop that advertising in the days leading up to the anniversary, the executive director of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, Howard Wolfson, demurred. ''There are no plans to,'' he said. When asked whether the candidates themselves should stop their advertising, Mr. Wolfson demurred again, saying, ''They should decide that on a case-by-case basis.'' Officials at the Republican House and Senate campaign committees said they were still debating what to do. But it is a fair bet that they will ultimately follow the lead of their Democratic counterparts, whose decision today, no matter how limited, signaled the start of what is likely to be a politically complicated month for both parties. On both sides of the aisle, political leaders are trying to figure out how -- or, in some states and on some days, even whether -- to conduct a campaign in what is promising to be a moment of such high emotion for the nation. The sensitivity of the task varies from region to region: the memory of Sept. 11, political strategists say, appears much more searing among voters in the Northeast, for obvious reasons. (Not incidentally, the chairwoman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, Representative Nita M. Lowey of New York, lives 45 minutes by car from ground zero.) Further, in states with primaries that fall on Sept. 10 -- New York, Maryland, Florida, North Carolina and New Hampshire, among those most closely watched -- the anniversary is certain to influence almost every major decision made by the parties and their candidates in the final days of the contest. Yet if the degree and intensity vary from race to race and place to place, many of the questions are a constant, and they are a subject of intense discussion within campaigns: In those states with Sept. 10 primaries, will the public have an appetite for politics at all? Will candidates, and the men and women who make their advertisements, feel obliged to tone down attacks that are usually a staple at the close of campaigns? And if there is what one Republican strategist referred to today as a ''frozen zone,'' how long will it last? What do candidates say in the campaign-ending debates in those states that have Sept. 10 primaries? And tone aside, will candidates be able to break through the sheer emotional intensity of the week, with either speeches or television advertisements, particularly in the Northeast? One Republican Congressional strategist said it was hard to see how the Democrats could engage in harshly partisan rhetoric as the anniversary approaches. That circumstance ''freezes Democrats out of the news cycle,'' this strategist said. Democrats themselves said it would be hard to imagine Terry McAuliffe, their national chairman, giving a speech in September like the one he gave in Las Vegas over the weekend, in which he accused President Bush of cynically manipulating sentiment over Sept. 11 to help Republican candidates. Mr. Wolfson said today that the Democrats' campaign committee for House candidates had decided against advertising on Sept. 11 ''out of respect and honor for the day.'' Still, while television viewership of Sept. 11 ceremonies is sure to be huge on the anniversary, several strategists questioned how many people would have paid attention to a political advertisement on that day in any event, or if there would be any way to do it that did not seem jarring. Leaders of both parties said they would avoid telling individual candidates what to do. ''Different folks are going to approach this differently,'' said Mitch Bainwol, executive director of the National Republican Senatorial Committee. ''We're walking through this with folks, but we're not instructing them.'' There is a considerable risk of stepping over some still undefined line in this entirely new territory, and being perceived as offensive or exploitive. It is still hardly clear what will be considered appropriate. For example, some Democratic Congressional candidates are considering whether to announce a moratorium on advertisements before Sept. 11, and challenge their Republican opponents to do the same. While those challenges will no doubt be framed in terms of respect and deference for a sacred anniversary, they will carry a practical advantage for Democrats, who most often find themselves outspent by better-financed Republican opponents in the final week of the campaign. As the calendar would have it, Gov. George E. Pataki of New York will appear in a ceremony at ground zero on the day after Democratic primary voters choose his opponent; that day-after is traditionally the start of the general election campaign, and though some Democrats might privately grouse about that, they are unlikely to make a public issue of it. Most Republican and Democratic strategists who discussed the issue today insisted on not being identified, a reflection of just how combustible the Sept. 11 anniversary could be for them. Still, many also argued that for all the concern now, the consternation surrounding the matter would be forgotten by the general election. For a taste of what lies ahead, there may be no better place to look than the experience of New York City last year, during a mayoral race. After a week of silence, the candidates all paid tribute to New York, and predicted that the attack on the World Trade Center would raise the tone of the campaign. It did, for about three weeks. 