DoS attack17.txt
AFRICA ZIMBABWE: SQUATTERS ORDERED OUT -- A judge ruled in favor of white farmers, saying black squatters on their farms were breaking the law. The judge said the squatters had 24 hours to leave the hundreds of farms they have occupied. The squatters, veterans of Zimbabwe's war of independence, had invaded the land to speed the pace of land reform. But Home Affairs Minister Dumiso Dabengwa said they had gone beyond the peaceful protests they had promised. Rachel L. Swarns (NYT) SOUTH AFRICA: IVORY SALE ADVANCES -- Less than a month before a meeting in Kenya on endangered species, South Africa's push for permission to sell a stockpile of ivory won support from its southern African neighbors. Critics say even a limited sale would encourage poaching. But South Africa, Botswana, Namibia and Zimbabwe say a properly monitored ivory trade would not threaten the elephant population. Henri E. Cauvin (NYT) ANGOLA: REBELS CONDEMN U.N. REPORT -- The Unita rebel group dismissed a United Nations report that it was being aided by African countries ignoring sanctions, calling the findings arrogant and racist. Unita said the report, commissioned by Robert Fowler, Canada's United Nations representative, was aimed at prolonging the war so that Angola's riches, mostly from the sale of diamonds, could be exploited by President Jose Eduardo dos Santos. (Reuters) EUROPE GERMANY: 'YES' TO BRITISH BEEF -- Parliament lifted a British beef import ban imposed in 1996 after outbreaks of mad-cow disease were linked by scientists to a similar but rare fatal brain condition in people. France, the only European Union country with a beef ban still in effect, said it would maintain its embargo despite legal action against it by the union. British beef will be on sale in Germany in early April. Victor Homola (NYT) SCOTLAND: TORIES WIN ONE -- The Conservatives won their first by-election in Scotland in 33 years and the first ever held for the new Scottish Parliament when John Scott, a farmer, captured a Labor Party seat in Ayr. The Tories said the victory signaled that the party was ''on the way back'' from its poor showing in the 1997 national vote, but Scottish Secretary John Reid said it was in keeping with Britain's tradition of midterm elections' being won by the opposition. Warren Hoge (NYT) NORTHERN IRELAND: EX-SOLDIER HELD -- William Ian Thompson, a member of a Protestant paramilitary group and former British soldier, was arraigned on weapons charges after being arrested by a police task force investigating the murder of Rosemary Nelson, a Catholic human rights lawyer who died in a car bomb attack a year ago. The squad was formed after allegations that the Ulster police may have helped her killers. Mr. Thompson, 28, was not charged with her murder. Warren Hoge (NYT) YUGOSLAVIA: EDITOR FREED -- The chief editor of a television station in Soko Banja, eastern Serbia, was freed after being jailed for almost a year for rebroadcasting foreign news reports from Sky News and CNN while NATO was bombing Yugoslavia. ''I don't regret anything,'' the editor, Nebojsa Ristic, said. Serbian authorities have recently closed four radio stations and three television channels. (Reuters) MIDDLE EAST WEST BANK: PALESTINIANS ON TRIAL -- The trial of two Palestinian terror suspects began in a Palestinian court in Nablus, only a day after the Palestinian police found and arrested them, seizing 88 pounds of explosives. The search for the two had been a key priority of Palestinian and Israeli officials in advance of Pope John Paul's visit to the Holy Land next week. Deborah Sontag (NYT) THE AMERICAS BRAZIL: POLICE CHIEF FIRED -- The governor of Rio de Janeiro fired his police chief and ordered a widespread inquiry into the police force after a top aide accused high-ranking officers of extortion, torture and murder. Gov. Anthony Garotinho, after firing Police Chief Waldyr Arruda, said investigators would look into charges of corruption among the state's 40,000 civilian and military police officers. (AP) MEXICO: DRUG CASE LAWYER KILLED -- The body of a lawyer for a suspected narcotics financier has been found in Mexico City, the attorney general's office reported. Gustavo Galvez Reyes, 32, was found wrapped in a blanket with a plastic bag over his head. Mr. Galvez had been representing Jesus Labra Aviles, who is suspected of being the top financial operative for the Arellano Felix drug gang. He was arrested in Tijuana. Julia Preston (NYT) CANADA: VIOLENT RIOTS -- The police charged 112 demonstrators with taking part in a riot after an outbreak of youth violence in Quebec. Protesters against police brutality stoned police cars and smashed windows of a bank and three McDonald's restaurants in Montreal. The protest turned violent after prosecutors announced that they would not immediately try two police officers who may have contributed to the death of a homeless man resisting arrest. James Brooke (NYT) ASIA PHILIPPINES: DEATHS IN REBEL CLASH -- Muslim separatists raided a southern town, capturing the town hall, and officials said as many as 47 were feared dead after several days' fighting. Moro Islamic Liberation Front rebels seized the Kauswagan town hall on the third day of fighting with government forces, but withdrew after meeting with Muslim officials. (Reuters) ARMENIA: TOP AIDE FIRED -- President Robert Kocharian fired his deputy interior minister, Carlos Kazarian, and replaced him with a former police official, Edik Barcekian, the presidential press service said. The action follows the firing of two deputy defense ministers, signaling further instability after an October coup attempt that left eight dead, including the prime minister and parliament speaker. (Agence France-Presse) 