DoS attack10.txt
Fueled by oil revenues, diamond smuggling and a disregard for civilian lives on all sides, Angola's ruinous civil war has stubbornly outlasted the cold-war machinations that ratcheted up the death toll in the 1980's. Upward of a million Angolans have died in 25 years of fighting and famine, and tens of thousands have been maimed by land mines. Unicef recently called Angola the worst place on earth for children -- a country where 30 percent of them will die before the age of 5. But a recent series of military advances by government forces may mean the war is nearing a decisive phase. It is far too early to tell, but clearly an opportunity is at hand for the rest of the world to pressure both sides to devise a lasting peace based on democratic values and respect for human rights. With the end of the cold war Angola's conflict has evolved into a crude competition between government and rebel forces for power and profits from the country's rich deposits of diamonds, oil and gas. A cease-fire collapsed in 1992 after President Eduardo Dos Santos won an election and Jonas Savimbi, the rebel leader, cynically resumed the fighting. A second cease-fire in 1994 fell apart a year ago when the government accused the rebels of stockpiling arms and attacked. Mr. Savimbi had in fact rearmed with the benefit of several billion dollars in diamond-smuggling revenues. Now Mr. Dos Santos's forces, strengthened by escalating oil profits, have driven the rebels out of nearly three-quarters of the country, and the fighting has spilled into neighboring Namibia. Mr. Savimbi, who received South African and American support during the cold war, deserves little sympathy. He has broken numerous promises and ruthlessly pursued his own agenda. But the rest of the world would be mistaken if it unconditionally embraced Mr. Dos Santos. Though his government was legitimately elected and has long since abandoned its original Marxist creed, it has been responsible for widespread rights violations in recent years. The new American representative to the United Nations, Richard Holbrooke, set the right tone on a visit to Angola last month when he said the United States would throw its weight -- and, it is hoped, its intelligence capabilities -- behind a Canadian-led effort to tighten and enforce sanctions on Mr. Savimbi's diamond- and weapons-smuggling operations. At the same time he spoke bluntly about the government's human rights abuses and met with an Angolan editor who had been imprisoned and tortured. It was a welcome departure from the record of recent years in which an American-backed United Nations peacekeeping unit too often accommodated Angola's warlords by overlooking their flagrant abuses. 