targeted threat19.txt
After enduring bitter street fights in Grozny and mountain battles with hundreds of rebels, the Russian military is facing a new threat: raids in rear areas supposedly controlled by Russian forces. Senior Russian commanders disclosed today that rebels sneaked through a dense fog on Tuesday morning and set fire to a Russian field hospital, one of only four that the Russian military has in Chechnya. The rebels have also been mining roads behind Russian lines. And Russian commanders have warned their troops that the rebels may try to send small groups of saboteurs disguised as civilians into Russian-controlled settlements, like Gudermes, Chechnya's second-largest city. The rebels' new tactics apparently reflect their determination to inflict high casualties on Russian troops in the hope that doing so will produce a stalemate and turn the Russian public against the war. The tactics are also an effort by the rebels to take advantage of the dense mist, rain and snow flurries that have descended on Chechnya, slowing Russian military operations on all fronts. The bad weather has made it virtually impossible for the Russian military to mount effective bombing and helicopter attacks, temporarily erasing one of the main advantages the Russians have had, and officers said heavy fog could prevail for several weeks. Many of the airstrikes are normally staged from the sprawling Russian base here at Mozdok, in the Russian republic of North Ossetia just northwest of Chechnya. ''The nasty weather has limited our attacks,'' Maj. Gen. Vladimir A. Shamanov, the commander of the Western Group of Russian Forces in Chechnya, said in an interview. ''The fighting has slowed down, and we are primarily involved in reconnaissance, guarding our posts and protecting our lines of communication.'' After three months of fighting, the rebels have been driven into two areas of Chechnya: Grozny, the capital, and the highlands in the south. They have not given up the fight, however, and are fighting to open a corridor between their mountain bases and Grozny. The route the rebels want to establish would run from the Chechen highlands to the southern city of Urus-Martan, then to Alkhan-Yurt on the southern outskirts of Grozny and then to the capital itself. General Shamanov said he thought that the rebels were trying to create an escape route from Grozny so they could evacuate their wounded. But it is also possible that they want to supply their fighters in the capital with food and more arms. Even though weather has limited the fighting, Russian losses are still relatively heavy. According to official figures, eight Russian Army and Interior Ministry soldiers were killed in the last 24 hours, and 41 wounded. The Russians say they have killed many more rebels, but there is no way to verify those claims. Despite the rising toll, former President Boris N. Yeltsin said today that he was convinced that Russian forces would soon triumph. ''In another month we will finish off the terrorists,'' Mr. Yeltsin said during a visit to Jerusalem. ''This is the path that the Chechen people have chosen, and then there will be complete peace.'' But the threat of sabotage and die-hard insurgents suggest that Russia will find it difficult to maintain order in Chechnya even if it succeeds in routing the rebels in the next several months. The Russians have already made plans to station an army division, an Interior Ministry brigade and an expanded force of border guards in Chechnya indefinitely to deal with the threat of a guerrilla war in a region that Mr. Yeltsin insisted today welcomed Russian troops. The attack on Field Hospital 323 demonstrated the rebels' ability to carry out sabotage deep behind Russian lines. The hospital is in Chervlennaya, on the northern bank of Terek River, about 15 miles northeast of Grozny. Staffed by Russian doctors and nurses from the Urals, it cares for the Russian troops in Chechnya and has treated about 1,000 civilians, part of Russia's attempt to secure the loyalty of the Chechens. Col. Vladimir A. Ivantsov, the deputy chief of the Russian military medical service in the North Caucasian region, told reporters here that the attack was carried out at 11:30 a.m. on Tuesday after saboteurs eluded the tank platoon that is responsible for defending the field hospital. Because of the dense fog, the Russian troops never saw their foe. General Shamanov said the fog had sometimes reduced visibility to no more than 50 or 100 yards. The saboteurs set fire to three tents, which housed surgery, anesthesiology and intensive care wards. Special quartz lamps are used to kill the microbes inside the tents, and the flammable gases emitted by the lamps further fueled the fire. Within 15 minutes, the hospital was in ruins. Colonel Ivantsov said it was not the first time the hospital was targeted. The tank platoon that guarded the hospital was shot at three times, and one sentry was wounded. Rebel sympathizers also warned the hospital's doctors not to accept civilian patients, apparently an effort by the rebels to drive a wedge between the Russian troops and local residents. Colonel Ivantsov said that hospital guards need to be more vigilant and that the hospital might try to improve its security by declining to admit civilians. But he was worried that those steps might not be sufficient. ''Even if we increase our guards, that will not necessarily stop someone from shooting at us from behind a tree or from launching a grenade,'' he said. ''That's easy.'' The Russian command here was bracing for more attacks in the coming days. ''The bandits are providing stubborn resistance to our troops,'' the Russian command said in a statement today. ''Rebel reconnaissance and terrorist activity at the places where our troops are deployed has increased.'' -------------------- Communist Enters Race By The New York Times MOSCOW, Jan. 6 -- Another candidate entered the race today to succeed Boris N. Yeltsin as Russia's president. Gennadi A. Zyuganov, the Communist Party leader, said he would run, joining a small field that is challenging the acting president, Vladimir V. Putin, who was appointed by Mr. Yeltsin. Others in the race are Grigory A. Yavlinsky, leader of a liberal party, Yabloko, and Vladimir V. Zhirinovsky, a flamboyant nationalist maverick. Former Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov, once considered the leading candidate, has yet to announce his decision. But a politician close to him, Oleg Morozov, said he doubted that Mr. Primakov would run against Mr. Putin. 