targeted threat8.txt
The president has ordered that American flags be flown at half-staff to honor the victims of the Atlanta spa shootings. President Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris, the first Asian-American in the role, met with Asian-American leaders in Atlanta on Friday afternoon after a shooting rampage at Asian massage businesses left eight people dead this week. “They’ve been attacked blamed scapegoated and harassed,” Mr. Biden lamented in remarks after the meeting, condemning the escalating violence against Asian-Americans during the coronavirus pandemic. “They’ve been verbally assaulted, physically assaulted, killed. It’s been a year of living in fear for their lives.” Those who met with the president and vice president included Atlanta’s mayor, Keisha Lance Bottoms, state lawmakers and the heads of several Asian-American social justice groups and nonprofit organizations. Ms. Harris after the meeting: “We want Asian Americans in Georgia and across our nation to know: We won’t be silent. We won’t standby. We will always speak out against violence.” While investigators continue to assess whether the shootings were racially motivated, Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris were expected to discuss during the coronavirus pandemic. Six of the people killed in the Atlanta shootings were women of Asian descent. At a hearing of the House Judiciary Committee on Thursday, that the country had reached a “crisis point” amid a sharp increase in discrimination and violence targeting the Asian community. It was the first congressional hearing on the issue held in over three decades. Although Asian-Americans, like other minority groups, have long endured deadly violence, the threats and discrimination they continue to face are often trivialized as harmless insults. “There’s a tendency to not believe that violence against Asian-Americans is real,” said Angela Hsu, 52, a lawyer in suburban Atlanta. “It’s almost like you need something really, really jarring to make people believe that there is discrimination against Asian-Americans.” Investigators in Cherokee County, where one spa was targeted, have said that the gunman told them he had a “sexual addiction” and had carried out the attacks as a way to eliminate temptation. The president and vice president canceled a political event that had previously been scheduled for Friday night in Georgia, the White House announced. “During their trip to Atlanta,” White House officials said, “they will instead meet with Asian-American leaders to discuss the ongoing attacks and threats against the community.” This week, Ms. Harris, , condemned the bloodshed and expressed her solidarity with the Asian-American community. “This speaks to a larger issue, which is the issue of violence in our country and what we must do to never tolerate it and to always speak out against it,” Ms. Harris said, adding that the motive in the shooting was still unclear. “I do want to say to our Asian-American community that we stand with you and understand how this has frightened and shocked and outraged all people,” she added. As a tribute to the shooting victims, Mr. Biden on Thursday ordered American flags to be flown at half-staff through sunset on Monday. 