targeted threat18.txt
In a speech shortly after his election in October, President Abdurrahman Wahid told academics and business executives that the two most important words in any discussion of Indonesia's economic future are "foreign investment." The climate for fresh or expanded investment has shown some improvement in the ensuing months. Foreigners have targeted some Indonesian assets that look especially appealing at their current bargain prices. In December, American International Group Inc., the giant U.S. insurer, was reported to be planning an investment of dollars 170 million in Lippo Group's insurance operations. Newbridge Capital Ltd. and Gilbert Global Equity Capital said earlier that they planned to jointly invest in PT Astra International, Indonesia's biggest automaker. The two U.S.-based companies agreed to pay nearly dollars 500 million for a 38 percent stake. Optimism about Indonesia's economic recovery and its prospects for foreign investment has spilled over into the stock market. Jakarta shares soared 72 percent last year. Still, Indonesia has a long road ahead to fully restore investor confidence, which was shattered in the financial crisis that erupted in 1997. Foreign investment has plummeted to dollars 10.6 billion in 1999 from dollars 33.8 billion in 1997, according to Indonesia's Capital Investment Coordinating Board. Among the efforts that will ultimately restore confidence, Indonesia is working to implement structural economic reforms, resuscitate its debt-paralyzed banking industry and sort out a political scandal in which funds for a bank's restructuring were diverted. Amid the encouraging signs, two London-based business risk consultancies, Merchant International Group and Control Risks Group, have recently released separate reports that examine whether Indonesia is yet ripe for a significant onslaught of foreign investment. Merchant International, which provides political and economic analysis to governments and multinational corporations, sees a need for significant progress in reform of Indonesia's legal system. Its report warned against unrealistic optimism about the pace of legal reform. "Change cannot and will not happen overnight," it said. "Although legal reform is on the agenda, the scale of the task is immense." Both consultants' reports point to Indonesia's continuing unrest as a factor inhibiting investor enthusiasm. In its report, Control Risks Group noted the pressure on the government from separatist and religious insurgencies and concluded that further instability "will hinder the implementation of the economic and social reforms that many analysts deem critical to regaining foreign investor confidence." Control Risks Group, which has advised more than 3,500 clients in 130 countries since its inception in 1975, issued its worldwide assessments in November in a report called "Outlook 2000 — Global Risk Forecast." Merchant International Group also cited religious tensions as a source of uncertainty that deters investors, and it ranked Indonesia as one of the world's three hotbeds of religious extremism, along with Pakistan and Russia. In the latest sign of strife, fighting between Christians and Muslims escalated in the past week in Ambon, leaving more than 500 people dead. "Over the past months, Indonesia has teetered on the edge of civil war and even anarchy," said the report, released two weeks before the latest clashes. "The prognosis is not good. Even if the necessary economic reforms are cleanly and quickly executed, the threats and risks for the country remain huge." Control Risks Group independently reached a similar conclusion, saying that in Indonesia, "the investment climate is likely to remain poor in 2000." In Southeast Asia, the consultancy said, "the region's most volatile country remains Indonesia, which is unrivaled in terms of political, economic and social instability. There are signs that the economic nadir has been reached and that a slow recovery is under way." But, the report added, "the potential for future violent unrest remains high nationwide." 