targeted threat26.txt
THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE BATTLEFIELD In a war with Iraq, the Air Force would use the same missile-firing drones that killed one of Al Qaeda's senior leaders in Yemen to attack Iraqi air defense radars, mobile Scud missile launchers and possibly sensitive targets in Baghdad, military officials said today. In Afghanistan, the Air Force flew unarmed Predator planes, mostly for reconnaissance missions or to designate targets for piloted bombers. The Central Intelligence Agency used armed Predators extensively there to attack suspected Qaeda leaders and expanded its killer-drone operations beyond Afghanistan for the first time on Sunday, blasting Qaed Salim Sinan al-Harethi and five associates in Yemen. About a month ago, the Air Force began patrolling the skies over Iraq's southern no-flight zone with remote-controlled Predators armed with two Hellfires, an air-to-ground, laser-guided weapon used effectively by Apache helicopter gunships against Iraqi tanks in the 1991 Persian Gulf war. The armed Predators have so far fired three or four missiles at Iraqi targets, including radar dishes, Air Force officials said today. The total number of missiles fired by C.I.A. and military drones in Afghanistan and Iraq is classified, but officials put the number at 70 to 80. ''On targets, it's effective,'' Gen. Richard B. Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said last month. The Predator, an ungainly, propeller-driven craft that flies as slowly as 80 miles per hour and is guided by an operator at a television monitor hundreds of miles away, has proved a formidable weapon in the campaign against terror. Last November, a Predator operated by the C.I.A. was used to coordinate a strike in which one of Osama bin Laden's closest lieutenants, Muhammad Atef, was killed in Kabul. With its ability to loiter continuously for 24 hours or more at 15,000 feet above the battlefield, the Predator can send live video to AC-130 gunships or command posts around the world without putting American pilots at risk. Its radar, infrared sensors and color video camera can track vehicles at night and through clouds. The video is sharp enough to make out people on the ground from more than three miles away. ''The real advantage, of course, that the Predator brings, armed or unarmed, is the fact that it's persistent,'' General Myers said. ''It's over the target area for long periods of time, and it can move between targets.'' In any offensive against Iraq, the Air Force would probably use a combination of armed and unarmed Predators flying from Ali al Salem Air Base in Kuwait, military officials said today. The Predators flying over Afghanistan have operated from an air base in Jacobabad, Pakistan. Armed Predators could play a role in locating Saddam Hussein's mobile biological weapons laboratories or destroying targets in Baghdad that could be too risky for piloted aircraft. ''The capability of using unmanned combat vehicles, particularly with weapons that can be precisely delivered over heavily defended areas, obviously yields some operational advantages,'' said an Air Force official. The Air Force has about 50 Predators, but only a handful are equipped to launch the Hellfire missiles that pack a 14-pound, custom-designed charge of blast-fragment explosives. The C.I.A. has a small, undetermined number of armed drones. Newer versions of the Predator, made by General Atomics Aeronautical Systems Inc. of San Diego, at $4.5 million apiece, are rolling off the production lines at the rate of about two aircraft a month, Air Force officials said today. The Predators are not without shortcomings. Like any small plane, they cannot fly in stormy weather, and have been prone to icing. The plane also can be vulnerable to enemy antiaircraft fire. At least nine Air Force Predators and one C.I.A. drone have crashed during missions involving Afghanistan or Iraq since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. The Predator's major combat debut came in 1995 over Bosnia, where it provided sharp images of the battlefield in what the military calls ''real time.'' A year before the Sept. 11 attacks, unarmed C.I.A. drones captured on video a tall turban-wearing man in Afghanistan that many intelligence officials believed was Mr. bin Laden. But the Predators were not equipped to fire missiles. The use of the armed Predator in counterterrorism was years in the making, coming only after settlement of a long-running argument between the military and C.I.A. over who should have ultimate authority for firing its missiles. That disagreement, officials said, persisted in the months before Sept. 11 and was resolved only after a Predator missed a chance on the first night of the Afghan war to attack a convoy that some said included Mullah Muhammad Omar, the Taliban leader. The understanding reached after that missed opportunity gave the C.I.A., for the first time, the authority to strike beyond a narrow range of counterterrorism targets. 