targeted threat10.txt
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS As Western governments began spending hundreds of millions of dollars in recent years to help Russia dispose of nuclear weapons and treat radioactive waste, Zvezda seemed like an ideal place to do some of the work. Zvezda is a sprawling military shipyard, so it has the expertise to scrap submarines. The plant sits on the harbor in the town of Bolshoi Kamen on the Sea of Japan, where the Russian Navy had been dumping liquid radioactive waste. And it is in chronic need of cash: its workers, like millions across Russia, are owed months of wages. But almost four years into a Japanese-financed project to build a liquid radioactive waste treatment facility at Zvezda, the work is still incomplete. An American contractor has complained of what it calls intentional delays to inflate the bills. It also is unclear how Russia even can afford to run the treatment site. The project's troubles carry an added urgency, as Zvezda receives millions of dollars in United States Cooperative Threat Reduction funds -- part of the money Congress set aside to help Russia meet its treaty obligations to dismantle and destroy weapons of mass destruction. By 2001, the shipyard is scheduled to cut up 14 Delta- and Yankee-class submarines capable of launching long-range ballistic missiles. Over the last year, American officials have expressed fears that delays in completing the waste-water treatment site could hurt American efforts to reduce nuclear weapons in Russia. The waste-water treatment site is a sophisticated plant mounted on a 213-foot by 77-foot barge, capable of treating 1.8 million gallons a year. The Japanese agreed to finance the operation because they are fearful of nuclear waste being dumped into the sea they share with Russia. McDermott International Inc., a New Orleans company, whose subsidiary, BWX Technologies, has been building the barge, told American consular officials in Vladivostok that its $25 million contract had run $8 million in the red because Zvezda was intentionally stalling in order to prolong the work. ''The more artificial the overruns, the less bang we will extinguish for our buck, if this tendency is replicated nationwide,'' Douglas Kent, then the ranking consular officer in Vladivostok, wrote in a report last February after conferring with McDermott executives. Despite such worries, the American and Japanese governments have pressed ahead at Zvezda. Pentagon officials insist there are sufficient controls to prevent misuse of American dollars. The United States Defense Threat Reduction Agency has a contract with Zvezda requiring the shipyard to meet monthly targets, said Maj. Ron Alberto. ''If they don't do the work, they don't get paid, and they have discrete, measurable tasks that they have to comply with,'' he said. Zvezda is in a military town of 50,000 in the far eastern finger of Russia that lies between China, North Korea and the Sea of Japan. Bolshoi Kamen is classified as a closed city, where few foreigners may enter. Even Russians need special passes to visit. Zvezda receives financing for a handful of submarine-destruction projects in addition to the barge. The Defense Threat Reduction Agency is paying the shipyard $8 million to chop up submarines that once aimed at the United States. Lockheed Martin Energy Technologies Inc. of Bethesda, Md., has a Defense Department contract to process low-level solid radioactive waste and the waste water that comes from washing items like radiation-contaminated worker clothing. (This water was once flushed untreated into the bay, foreign workers say.) It is also building a plant for storing the solid radioactive byproduct until the Russian government decides what to do with it. (Lockheed Martin won a $24 million contract both for work at Zvezda and a similar project near the port of Archangel, in northwestern Russia on the White Sea.) Although Bolshoi Kamen has permitted about 25 foreigners connected to Zvezda projects to live in the town, Russian authorities have denied press requests to visit. Such strictness is not unusual when the subject is nuclear waste in Russia. The Federal Security Service, the post-Soviet successor of the KGB, or secret police, is still appealing a Russian Navy court's decision to dismiss treason charges against Capt. Grigory Pasko, who first disclosed the dumping of liquid radioactive waste in the sea. And Federal Security Service agents raided the office of an oceanographer who was researching radiation levels at nearby Chazhma Bay, where a nuclear accident occurred in 1985. The restricted entry to Bolshoi Kamen has angered some foreign contractors and officials. ''Access to the site has been limited to the extent of interfering with work there,'' the United States commercial consul in Vladivostok, Richard Steffens, wrote in a 1999 report on the city. Though Zvezda is one of the biggest recipients of American investment in the Russian Far East, Mr. Steffens wrote he had been able to visit the city just once. Limited access has not been the only matter to hinder progress. Mr. Kent wrote that Zvezda appeared to have intentionally slowed work, apparently because the destitute city benefited from the foreign spending in town and the 25 Russian workers directly employed on the project. The Russian Ministry of Economics, which oversees Zvezda, has exerted little authority over the project, Mr. Kent wrote. ''Despite frank and direct appeals from McDermott, the municipal administration seems not to get the message that the company is losing large amounts of money on this project, and has been soured on doing any other business in Russia,'' Mr. Kent wrote. The Zvezda director, Valery Maslakov, denied requests for an interview. In a brief telephone conversation, Mr. Maslakov said he was not required to discuss the reasons for delays. The Japanese have expressed disappointment with the delays but confidence that the barge will soon be operational. Although McDermott announced in 1996 that the barge could be done in 10 months, a company spokesman, Pierre DeGruy, acknowledged in a telephone interview that the project had ''some unexpected logistical problems that caused delays.'' Mr. DeGruy said such problems were not unusual. While McDermott has sought governmental pressure to move Zvezda along, the shipyard's own workers have grown restive at times over wage delays. In October 1998, employees joined a Vladivostok demonstration of 5,000 unpaid workers who waved Communist banners and burned President Boris N. Yeltsin in effigy. During 1999, the mood has been more optimistic, although Zvezda still owes its workers wages for all of 1997, said Olga Skripko, leader of a trade union representing the factory's 3,000 workers. Others have questioned why a facility that receives foreign-contract money cannot pay off wages that are now worth less than a quarter of their 1997 dollar value because of the ruble's depreciation. Ivan Rogovoi, a regional legislator, said he became so suspicious of salary delays last year that he called for an investigation of Zvezda. A prosecutor later examined the shipyard's records, Mr. Rogovoi recalled. Four days later, many workers received a large chunk of their backpay. Desperation over unpaid wages apparently contributed to one Zvezda worker's involvement in a scheme to sell uranium, a local police investigation suggested. The worker was a part of a gang that stole the radioactive material and tried to sell it for $60,000 to undercover police agents. It is unclear where the uranium originated. Officials say there is no uranium at Zvezda; the reactors are removed from the submarines before they arrive. Zvezda's failure to pay its bills also extends to other companies. Vadim Bratukhin, spokesman for the regional electricity provider, Dalenergo, said Zvezda owed the utility $1.3 million. While it is not uncommon for cash-short Russian factories to ignore electric bills -- particularly in the military sector, which receives uninterrupted power by law, the debts are striking in Zvezda's case. In October, the shipyard paid Dalenergo only $145. ''They are one of our worst debtors,'' Mr. Bratukhin said. ''They make absolutely no effort to pay the debt.'' Such debt, in turn, contributes to a vicious cycle within a destitute region, whose administration has forbidden Dalenergo from raising electric rates to cover rising coal costs. The company's unpaid power workers periodically declare hunger strikes for back wages. Another apparent problem at Zvezda is that no one has decided what to do with a more tangible byproduct of submarine destruction than waste water: chunks of the submarines that are themselves contaminated with radioactivity. Each submarine has between 8 and 10 compartments, and the section that housed the nuclear reactor and two adjacent sections are also radioactive, said Sergei Lishavsky, senior specialist with the Vladivostok office of the federal Committee for Protecting the Environment. The rest of the submarine can be sold for scrap, but these blocks are too big to be moved by train, and Zvezda lacks the technology to cut them up. Mr. Lishavsky said the radioactive scrap was safely stored away from the Zvezda plant. He would not be more specific. ''We'll have to take them to Nevada, because we don't know what to do with them, '' he joked. 