targeted threat24.txt
THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE SUSPECT The Justice Department has told a federal judge that it has a witness and other proof that Zacarias Moussaoui was plotting to fly a hijacked plane into the White House in 2001 and had bought knives for the attack, according to a secret court transcript made public today. The heavily edited transcript of a hearing on Jan. 30 shows that a Justice Department lawyer told Judge Leonie M. Brinkema of Federal District Court in Alexandria, Va., that Mr. Moussaoui, the sole person facing trial in an American court for conspiring in the 9/11 attacks, ''was keenly aware of why he was here -- it was to fly a plane into the White House.'' Until now, the Justice Department has refused to confirm news reports based on court documents suggesting that prosecutors believed that Mr. Moussaoui had specific instructions from Al Qaeda to plan an attack on the White House, an attack separate from the four hijackings on Sept. 11, 2001. The transcript of the secret hearing shows that the government theory says Mr. Moussaoui planned to attack the White House, a theory based in large part on the testimony of a Malaysian, Faiz Bafana, who met Mr. Moussaoui three years ago at his house in Malaysia and has been linked to Al Qaeda. Mr. Bafana is in custody in Singapore. In the hearing on Jan. 30, an assistant United States attorney, Kenneth M. Karas, said, ''The evidence is clear'' that ''Moussaoui was keenly aware of why he was here.'' ''It was to fly a plane into the White House,'' Mr. Karas said. ''It was going to involve others. The fact that he didn't know the precise whereabouts or even if we can assume he didn't know the names of the people doesn't mean he doesn't know the objects of the conspiracy. ''He was sent here as part of the plot. That's what Bafana says. It's what people who are in the know say. ''We've got Moussaoui's own words that he gave to Bafana. His participation goes beyond just sitting around. He goes to the Afghanistan camps. He's a member of Al Qaeda. He goes to Malaysia to try to get money and to try to get training. He does what all the other hijackers do. He comes to America.'' Mr. Moussaoui, a Frenchman, has acknowledged that he is a member of Al Qaeda and is loyal to Osama bin Laden. But he has denied involvement in any plot against the White House and has pleaded not guilty to charges that he conspired in the Sept. 11 attacks. He was arrested in August 2001 on immigration charges after having aroused the suspicion of his instructors at a flight school in Eagan, Minn. His court-appointed legal advisers have suggested that Mr. Bafana's testimony could actually prove useful to the defense, because it will show that Mr. Bafana believed Mr. Moussaoui to be mentally unbalanced. In court papers made public in June, the lawyers said that in a pretrial deposition Mr. Bafana had remembered that Mr. Moussaoui had ''talked freely in Bafana's home about a 'dream' he had to fly an airplane into the White House.'' The lawyers said Mr. Bafana and the terrorists' leader in Southeast Asia ''concluded that, based on his conduct, Moussaoui was crazy ('cuckoo').'' Judge Brinkema announced on Thursday that she was unsealing five transcripts of secret hearings. The transcripts were actually made public today. The case against Mr. Moussaoui is in limbo after the Justice Department announced last month that it would refuse to comply with an order from the judge to make a captured terrorist from Al Qaeda available for questioning by Mr. Moussaoui and his court-appointed lawyers. Judge Brinkema has said she is weighing sanctions against the government, possibly including dismissing the case in civilian court, a move that would almost certainly result in Mr. Moussaoui's transfer to a military tribunal. In a separate decision today, the judge announced that she had blocked correspondence between Mr. Moussaoui and an imprisoned terrorist from Al Qaeda after the F.B.I. had apparently determined that Mr. Moussaoui might have tried to send coded messages to the terrorist in a letter. Judge Brinkema said Mr. Moussaoui sent the letter to Richard C. Reid, who is serving a life sentence after pleading guilty last year to trying to blow up an airliner over the Atlantic with explosives in his shoes. Judge Brinkema rejected Mr. Moussaoui's request that his correspondence to Mr. Reid be forwarded to the so-called shoe bomber, noting an ''apparent determination by the Federal Bureau of Investigation that a recent letter from Mr. Moussaoui to Mr. Reid may concern embedded or 'coded' messages.'' 