targeted threat15.txt
and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced yesterday that Bruce Teitelbaum, the man he has relied on in recent years to defend his administration and carry out many of his political orders, will manage his campaign if the mayor runs, as expected, for the United States Senate this year. His afternoon announcement coincided with a carefully worded statement issued by Mr. Teitelbaum's lawyer saying that, according to federal prosecutors and the Brooklyn district attorney's office, Mr. Teitelbaum is ''presently neither a target nor a subject'' of a criminal investigation into the collapse of a Brooklyn building that killed a construction worker in November. The accident has stirred questions about City Hall's influence over building practices in the Orthodox Jewish section of Williamsburg. Mr. Teitelbaum, the mayor's former chief of staff, was the administration's liaison to the city's Orthodox and Hasidic Jews. Federal prosecutors and investigators for the district attorney's office have been waiting to talk to him for several weeks. His lawyer, Richard Weinberg, said in the statement that Mr. Teitelbaum planned to meet shortly with investigators -- as a potential witness, he emphasized -- ''to answer all questions posed and to assist with any ongoing investigation.'' A spokesman for the United States attorney's office in Brooklyn, Bill Muller, declined to comment. Kevin Davitt, a spokesman for Charles J. Hynes, the Brooklyn district attorney, said that ''every word'' in Mr. Weinberg's statement was accurate. ''Now the investigation can go forward,'' Mr. Davitt said. In addition to specifying Mr. Teitelbaum's role in a campaign that has yet to be announced officially, the mayor said Randy L. Levine was stepping down as a deputy mayor to join the New York office of Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld, the Washington law firm. New York Yankees officials also said that Mr. Levine would soon assume a significant management position with the baseball team, which would include labor issues and salary arbitration negotiations. But the mayor stressed that Mr. Levine, who is his main conduit to the national Republican Party, would stay on as a senior campaign adviser and ''have a very important role in guiding'' the campaign. The mayor's naming of a campaign manager reflects a certain faith in the mostly untested abilities of Mr. Teitelbaum, who now serves as his top paid fund-raiser. Although he has essentially served as Mr. Giuliani's one-man campaign operation for the last year, Mr. Teitelbaum has no other experience in managing political campaigns and will be pitted against Bill de Blasio, an experienced political manager who will be running the campaign of Mr. Giuliani's expected opponent, Hillary Rodham Clinton. During his news conference yesterday, Mr. Giuliani was asked about the investigation and Mr. Teitelbaum, and he said he was not paying much attention to it because ''I know what it's about.'' In recent weeks, the Republican mayor has adamantly denied that Mr. Teitelbaum or anyone else in his administration had done anything untoward, and he has accused Mr. Hynes of running a politically motivated investigation. It also speaks to the mayor's disinclination to widen his tight-knit coterie of advisers, to which both Mr. Teitelbaum and Mr. Levine belong. Mr. Levine, 44, has often been in the background. He has been deputy mayor for economic development, planning and administration since June 1997. Before that, he was labor relations commissioner. In his four and a half years in city government, he negotiated contracts with school principals, sanitation workers, firefighters and transportation workers. (Mr. Levine is to serve as an adviser in the city's upcoming labor negotiations.) He has also been the mayor's link to upstate Republicans who have distrusted Mr. Giuliani ever since he endorsed former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, a Democrat, for re-election. Akin, Gump is the law firm of such prominent Democrats as Robert S. Strauss and Vernon E. Jordan, President Clinton's friend and adviser, but has in recent years reached out to Republicans in what its chairman, Bruce McLean, said was an attempt ''to cover both sides of the aisle.'' State Republicans and City Hall officials said yesterday that Mr. Levine's role in the campaign was for now undefined and that Mr. Teitelbaum would run the campaign from day to day. Peter Powers, the former first deputy mayor and one of Mr. Giuliani's oldest and closest friends, is also expected to have a major advisory role in the campaign. Mr. Giuliani said last night that he had not made individual assignments beyond that for Mr. Teitelbaum. ''All the rest of it is self-serving speculation,'' he said. Mr. Teitelbaum, 36, has often found himself in the news. That has been the price for being Mr. Giuliani's zealous personal assistant, the man called upon to weed out the unfaithful, to issue threats when deemed necessary. He is also the man who courted the mayor's Orthodox Jewish supporters. That reputation is one reason investigators want to talk to Mr. Teitelbaum. Gaston Silva, a former city buildings commissioner, has told prosecutors that Mr. Teitelbaum pressured him to remove Joseph Trivisonno, a building inspector whose style had prompted some developers in Williamsburg to complain to City Hall. Mr. Trivisonno resigned in late 1998, and later said he felt pressure from City Hall. Aides to Mr. Giuliani have said the treatment of Mr. Trivisonno represented a responsive government at best, heavy-handed politics at worst, but not anything that could be construed as illegal. 