targeted threat13.txt
The New York Times: Digital Copyright Issues Digital Copyright Issues Andrew Wallmeyer --> COPYRIGHT <!-- Are hackers the digital society's ultimate enemy, victims of public ignorance and media misconception, or both? Go to Forum --> WHAT IS DeCSS? DeCSS is the name of a program that circumvents the digital copy protection built into DVDs. The willful distribution of DeCSS and its legality under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act is the basis for pending lawsuit brought against several Web sites by the Motion Picture Association of America. DOCUMENTS &#149; Digital Millennium Copyright Act [PDF] &#149; 2600 DVD Lawsuit Archive SITES &#149; U.S. Copyright Office &#149; U.S. Copyright Office - Joint Study on Encryption Research &#149; Recording Industry Association of America &#149; Motion Picture Association of America &#149; Electronic Frontier Foundation &#149; ICANN Uniform Domain-Name Dispute-Resolution Policy &#149; World Intellectual Property Organization &#149; WIPO Arbitration and Mediation Center &#149; WIPO Primer on Electronic Commerce and Intellectual Property Issues &#149; Timeline: A History of Copyright in the U.S. &#149; Stanford Libraries - Copyright and Fair Use Resources DVD Software Trial Ends By AMY HARMON ( July 26 ) At the close of the trial Judge Lewis A. Kaplan told lawyers he had been impressed with testimony from a defense witness as to why computer software code should be protected by the First Amendment. Teenager Appears at Hacker Trial By CARL S. KAPLAN ( July 21 ) Jon Johansen, right, a skinny, 16-year-old Norwegian computer programmer, has kicked off a huge legal battle involving Hollywood and the Internet. DeCSS, the software he created, has the movie industry in a tizzy. Movies Added to Music Dispute By MATT RICHTEL ( July 21 ) Expanding their legal attack on the exchange of copyrighted works on the Internet, the motion picture and music industries sued to shut down Scour.com. Sega Cracks Down on Software Pirates By REUTERS ( July 21 ) Sega announced it had shut down more than 60 illegal web sites and 125 auction sites flogging pirated versions of its Dreamcast games, until recently viewed as one of the most secure digital entertainment systems on the market. Removal of Judge Sought By AMY HARMON ( July 20, 2000 ) Defense lawyers asked an appellate court yesterday to remove Judge Lewis A. Kaplan from hearing a federal lawsuit against Eric Corley, publisher of the magazine 2600. Studios Seek to Stop DVD Copies By AMY HARMON ( July 18, 2000 ) Lawyers for eight movie studios yesterday urged a federal judge to stop a Web site operator from distributing a software program that unscrambles the encryption on DVD movie disks. Trial May Be Short for DVD Software By CARL S. KAPLAN ( July 17, 2000 ) If Judge Lewis A. Kaplan continues to take a narrow view of the issues in the case, then "it's going to be a three-minute trial," defense lawyer Martin Garbus said. DVD Case Will Test Reach of Copyright Law By CARL S. KAPLAN ( July 14, 2000 ) An important Internet case pitting Hollywood's right to control access to its digital wares against the traditional rights to fair use of copyright and free speech is scheduled to get under way in federal court in Manhattan. U.N. Agency Fights Cybersquatters By REUTERS ( July 11, 2000 ) The World Intellectual Property Organisation is launching a new offensive against people who try to hijack Internet addresses. AOL Effort to Protect Copyrights By AMY HARMON ( June 28, 2000 ) In a deal that may break a logjam in promoting the secure downloading of music, America Online agreed to include software from InterTrust Technologies on compact discs containing the newest version of its own popular software. Lawmakers Look at Copyright Laws By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS ( June 16, 2000 ) Major content providers -- and the director of the federal copyright office -- argued that Internet companies should not be eligible for the special licenses that satellite and cable companies have to carry broadcast programming. DVD Case Asks: Is Linking Illegal? By CARL S. KAPLAN ( June 16, 2000 ) Suppose an online journalist writes a story and includes a link to a site that contains material alleged to be illegal. Is the publisher who did the linking in hot water? The answer is sometimes yes and sometimes no. Legal Maneuvering in Napster Case By MATT RICHTEL ( June 16, 2000 ) Both Napster and the recording industry sharpened their legal strategies this week in a battle with potentially broad implications for copyright law in the Internet era. Anarchists Try to Eliminate Copyrights From Cyberspace By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN ( June 10, 2000 ) Recent challenges to copyright are made possible, of course, by advances in technological piracy, but they also grow out of a set of ideas that have been associated with the Internet from its earliest public years. Software Executives Say Consumers Will Pay for Piracy By JERI CLAUSING ( June 8, 2000 ) If copyright laws are not more broadly and aggressively enforced on the Internet, software developers will be forced to resort to cumbersome technological protections that consumers will not like, an industry leader warned. Warned by the Music Industry, Web Site Files Suit By MATT RICHTEL ( June 6, 2000 ) In a lawsuit that legal experts say may have broad implications for all Internet search engines, a music Web site has sued the recording industry to retain the ability to link to music files even though some of the works may be pirated material. Television Site Claims Copyright Solution By BARRY BROWN ( June 2, 2000 ) ICraveTV, a Canadian Internet company, had a proven draw when it launched: programming from the big television networks in the United States, streamed live online. But it was forced to shut down after the networks objected. Report Proposes Update of Copyright Act By JERI CLAUSING ( May 22, 2000 ) The law meant to protect intellectual property on the Internet needs to be updated, a Democratic research center says in a report that proposes outlawing technologies like the controversial Napster software. Agent ́s Role in Site Changes War Over Rights By MATT RICHTEL ( May 22, 2000 ) Michael Ovitz, superagent and former Disney president, has made his name securing hundreds of millions of dollars in royalties, but his latest endeavor has the potential to drain income from some of his former clients. Napster May Have Weak Defense By CARL S. KAPLAN ( May 12, 2000 ) Pencils, copy machines and VCRs are perfectly legal products, even though an unscrupulous few may abuse them to illegally duplicate copyrighted material. That simple legal principle is likely to be the major defense offered up by Napster Inc. The Concept of Copyright Fights for Internet Survival By JOHN MARKOFF ( May 10, 2000 ) While courts struggle over the recording industry's challenge to digital music swapping, programmers are finishing a program that they say will make it impossible to control the traffic in any kind of digital information. Metallica to Try to Prevent Fans From Downloading Music By MATT RICHTEL and NEIL STRAUSS ( May 3, 2000 ) Online music sites have long conflicted with record labels, which say copyrighted songs are being pirated. Now the dispute is expected to take a significant turn that will pit musicians directly against their fans. MP3.com Hopes for Deal in Copyright Suit By JON PARELES ( May 1, 2000 ) MP3.com expressed guarded confidence about reaching a settlement with the Recording Industry Association of America, following a federal court ruling that the site had violated copyright law. Judge Says MP3.com Violated Copyright Law By AMY HARMON with JOHN SULLIVAN ( April 29, 2000 ) A federal judge gave a key victory to the recording industry in its effort to harness the distribution of digital music over the Internet, ruling that MP3.com had violated copyright law. First Amendment Lawyer Takes On DVD Case By CARL S. KAPLAN ( April 28, 2000 ) Eight major movie studios are asking a federal judge to order a Web publisher to stop linking to hundreds of sites carrying a piece of software that they say threatens their industry. Martin Garbus is determined to stop them. Virginia Is First With Controversial Software Law By JERI CLAUSING ( March 14, 2000 ) The legislation, known as the Uniform Computer Information Transaction Act, is a controversial attempt to reinforce the legal status of the agreements Internet users increasingly enter with the click of a mouse when they use packaged software products or Web sites. Major Copyright Holders Team Up to Lobby Congress By JERI CLAUSING ( Feb. 22, 2000 ) Amid growing concern over the threat of Internet piracy, a broad coalition of groups representing copyright holders have banded together to create a new, potentially formidable lobbying force. Preliminary Injunction Ordered Against Canadian Site By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS ( Feb. 22, 2000 ) Several motion picture studios and TV networks, along with two of the nation's professional sports leagues, successfully persuaded a judge to ban a Canadian Internet site from transmitting live broadcasts into the United States. Tough Court Fight Expected Over DVD Code By CARL S. KAPLAN ( Feb. 11, 2000 ) After losing the first round in an important legal fight over DVD technology, lawyers for three men who have become targets of Hollywood's ire are preparing for a full-blown trial. Court Says Software Can Emulate Sony's PlayStation By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS ( Feb. 11, 2000 ) A software company that's making a new version of another firm's video game player can reproduce its rival's copyright software during the development process, a federal appeals court has said. Three Copyright Lawsuits Test Limits of New Media By SARA ROBINSON ( Jan. 24, 2000 ) A flurry of court activities last week revealed a growing conflict between the entertainment industry, which is struggling to protect its products and profits in the Internet age, and consumer groups. Recording Industry Files Suit Against MP3.Com By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS ( Jan. 22, 2000 ) The Recording Industry Association of America has filed a copyright infringement lawsuit against MP3.com for its services that allow users to instantly hear music and add their personal music to a play list. Studios Join Legal Battle To Stop DVD Copying By DOW JONES NEWSWIRES ( Jan. 15, 2000 ) Eight major Hollywood studios filed a lawsuit in federal court in Manhattan claiming three New York men are operating Web sites that are proliferating a software program called DeCSS. DVD Lawsuit Questions Legality of Linking By CARL S. KAPLAN ( Jan. 7, 2000 ) For the second time in as many months, an American court has been asked to wrestle with a problem whose answer could determine the future look and free-wheeling nature of the World Wide Web. Judge Rejects Effort to Block DVD Program By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS ( Dec. 31, 1999 ) An electronics industry group has lost a bid to halt distribution of DeCSS, a program that removes security encryption from DVD videos, while it awaits a court date. DVD Group Sues Over Copying By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS ( Dec. 30, 1999 ) An association representing the motion picture and consumer electronics industries has gone to court to keep World Wide Web sites from distributing software that lets users make illegal copies of DVDs. Digital Audio Lawsuit Could Set Precedent By SARA ROBINSON ( Dec. 30, 1999 ) RealNetworks is suing a company that makes software that converts RealNetworks' products into the format marketed by its rival, Microsoft. Copyright Decision Threatens Freedom to Link By CARL S. KAPLAN ( Dec. 10, 1999 ) In a ruling that could undermine the freedom to create links on the Web, a federal judge has temporarily barred two critics of the Mormon Church from posting the addresses of sites featuring pirated copies of a Mormon text. University Cracks Down on MP3 Trade By PAMELA MENDELS ( Nov. 10, 1999 ) Officials at Carnegie Mellon University have imposed penalties on 71 students alleged to have posted digitized copies of music recordings and other copyrighted material on the campus computer system. Ticketmaster Sues Again Over Links By BOB TEDESCHI ( August 10, 1999 ) Six months after settling a lawsuit against the Microsoft over the practice known as "deep linking," Ticketmaster Online-CitySearch filed a similar suit against a competitor, Tickets.com. Is Linking Always Legal? The Experts Aren't Sure. By CARL S. KAPLAN ( August 6, 1999 ) The legal status of hyperlinking on the World Wide Web is unsettled, say some cyberspace law experts. Especially controversial is the use of so-called "deep" links, which point directly to Web pages or other content within another site. U.S. Copyright Proposal Supports Distance Learning By PAMELA MENDELS ( May 29, 1999 ) Calling distance education "a vibrant and burgeoning field," the United States Copyright Office is recommending a series of changes to federal law that it says would make it easier for educators to use copyrighted materials in classes taught over computer networks. 'Star Wars' Producers Warn ISPs Over Copyright By PAMELA MENDELS ( May 4, 1999 ) At the same time that stores are eagerly distributing new toys and accessories based on the upcoming "Star Wars" film, the movie's producers are warning Internet Service providers that unauthorized distribution of footage from the movie on their networks violates federal law. Judge Halts Imitation PlayStation By PETER WAYNER ( April 23, 1999 ) A federal judge has issued a preliminary injunction barring a small Silicon Valley company from shipping software that allows Macintosh owners to play games designed for the Sony PlayStation on their computers. Music Publishers' Internet Plans May Include Lyrics Site By MATTHEW MIRAPAUL ( Feb. 18, 1999 ) The National Music Publishers Association is expanding its Web presence in a way that would make song lyrics from the International Lyrics Server a perfect fit. The association had accused the Web site of digital piracy, so such an accord would be unprecedented. Copyright Law Raises Questions for Distance Education By PAMELA MENDELS ( Feb. 10, 1999 ) For years, distance-learning courses have been exempt from copyright law. Now educators say the law is due for an overhaul, to encourage the expansion of learning via digital technologies. Sony Fails to Stop Imitation PlayStation for Macintosh By PETER WAYNER ( Feb. 6, 1999 ) Sony has failed in its legal efforts to stop a small Silicon Valley software company from shipping a product that allows Macintosh computer users to play games developed for Sony's PlayStation. Lyrics Site in Copyright Dispute May Go Commercial By MATTHEW MIRAPAUL ( Jan. 30, 1999 ) The combatants in an Internet copyright dispute involving the International Lyrics Server are considering ways to settle their differences outside the courtroom, the site's founder said. One solution may be to take the shuttered Web site, which is likely to return this weekend with limited capabilities, and fully restore it as an authorized resource for music fans. &#149;&nbsp; Lyrics Site in Copyright Dispute Is Closed Online Publisher Challenges Copyright Law By CARL S. KAPLAN ( Jan. 15, 1999 ) Eric Eldred, who runs a Web site that republishes classic works of literature, was upset by the recent federal copyright extension act, which will keep him from posting certain works for 20 more years. But now Lawrence Lessig of Harvard, two other Harvard professors and two lawyers have taken up his case, pro bono. House and Senate Agree on Complex Copyright Bill By JERI CLAUSING ( Oct. 9, 1998 ) The House and Senate reached an agreement on the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, a complex bill that consumer and academic interests fear could limit access to some information currently protected by "fair-use" provisions of copyright law. Home | Site Index | Site Search | Forums | Archives | Marketplace Quick News | Page One Plus | International | National/N.Y. | Business | Technology | Science | Sports | Weather | Editorial | Op-Ed | Arts | Automobiles | Books | Diversions | Job Market | Real Estate | Travel Help/Feedback | Classifieds | Services | New York Today Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 