targeted threat17.txt
The weeklong hijacking saga involving an Indian Airlines jetliner ended with a hostages-for-terrorists swap, but it has left India bruised, with its self-esteem dented, its ineptitude bared and its vulnerability to further acts of terrorism heightened. A nuclear-armed nation of a billion people buckled to demands of five militant Islamic hijackers after being held to ransom for more than a week, during which government policy-making ground to a virtual standstill as Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee held daily crisis meetings of his cabinet. Capitulation came with groveling: The Indian foreign minister personally accompanied three jailed Kashmiri extremists on a special flight and delivered them to the hijackers at Kandahar, Afghanistan, the lair of international terrorists and headquarters of that country's dominant Taleban militia. The United Nations has imposed terrorism-related sanctions on the Taleban. The hijackers — who fatally slit the throat of one passenger — and their released comrades drove away to freedom and could one day return to Indian Kashmir via Pakistan. This was the first instance since airliner hijackings began in the late 1960s that a government minister flew to known terrorist territory to hand over terrorist convicts to terrorists holdinga planeload of hostages. The hijacking that ended Friday wasa reminder of the growing threat to India from Islamic fundamentalist, terrorist forces thriving on heroin trade, plentiful supply of illicit arms and aid from regimes lacking legitimacy. But the deal with the hijackers fell foul of the fragile international consensus not to cave in to terrorist demands and India's credentials as a frontline state against international terrorism. It also exposed India as a soft target for further terrorist attacks. India has not learned from past mistakes: The Kandahar deal came a decade after the release of five hard-core militants, in return for freedom of the federal interior minister's abducted daughter, triggered the resurgence of separatist violence in Kashmir. For Kashmiri extremists, who in recent months have carried out bold attacks on army and paramilitary camps, the cave-in by an Indian government that came to power on an assertive nationalistic agenda is a major morale-booster. The message they will read is that if such a government can bow, India is an easy target. India's ignominy over the hijacking was largely self-made: A series of blunders compelled it to negotiate on bended knee with the hostage-takers and the Taleban. New Delhi publicized thedemands of the hijackers but not thoseof the Taleban, which came out the biggest winner. Despite intelligence warnings of growing anti-India activities of foreign Islamic extremists in Nepal, where the hijackers boarded the plane, the Indian authorities did not order special security checks on passengers or place armed guards aboard flights. The security at Katmandu airport is such, according to the hijacked airliner's co-pilot, that "even a dog can clamber on board." Since India shares a long, open border with Nepal, its security perimeter should naturally extend up to the northern Nepalese frontier. If India cannot fight terrorism in Nepal, the battle is lost. Alternatively, it can close the border with Nepal and end travel without visa or passport. The most serious blunder, now being investigated, occurred on Indian territory when the hijacked jetliner landed in Amritsar because of low fuel. This heav- en-sent opportunity for India, which the hostage-takers had not bargained for, was allowed to slip away with authorities failing to immobilize the plane. Any successful hijacking comes with credible threats to the lives of cockpit crew and passengers. One or two hijackers can be on a suicide mission, not multiple hijackers. But the officially released Amritsar air-traffic transcripts show that the Indian authorities neither understand the psychology of terrorists nor are prepared to take immediate action. What followed was equally bizarre: India did not ask either Pakistan or the United Arab Emirates to detain the plane when it made stops in those countries, but asked the Taleban not to let it take off from Kandahar, the worst possible place for a hijacked aircraft to be taken. Having put itself at the Taleban's mercy, India then began begging for cooperation from the very regime exporting terrorism to Kashmir. Almost overnight, New Delhi changed its description of the Taleban from a foe to an ally against the hijackers. By cozying up to the Taleban — best illustrated by the Indian foreign minister walking hand in hand with his Taleban counterpart at the Kandahar airport — India displayed diplomatic credulity. In dressing up an enemy as a newfound friend, the assumption made was that others change their beliefs and policies as rapidly and abstractedly as India does. However, if anyone has changed, it is India, not the Taleban. While no nation can completely free itself of terrorist infiltration and hijacking, the level of threat from such acts to a state is determined by the manner in which it responds to them. A laid-back, uncoordinated or slipshod response only encourages further terrorism. The writer, professor of security studies at the privately funded Center for Policy Research in New Delhi, contributed this comment to the International Herald Tribune. [Not to be reproduced without the permission of the author.] 