THREATS AND RESPONSES: REACTION North Korea stirred a storm of protest with its announcement Friday that it was withdrawing from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, with many analysts viewing the move as hard bargaining rather than a declaration that it would begin building nuclear weapons. Condemnation came from around the world, from France, Japan, Russia and Australia as well as from South Korea, where President Kim Dae Jung said the announcement had ''brought the situation on the Korean peninsula from bad to worse by one step.'' Concerns were heightened after a North Korean representative to the United Nations said on Friday in New York that any United Nations sanctions would be considered an act of war. Mr. Kim was scheduled to meet today with Foreign Minister Dominique de Villepin of France, who called for ''more urgent international action'' in response to North Korea's withdrawal. France holds the rotating presidency of the Security Council. The statement issued on Friday asserted that North Korea had no intention of producing nuclear weapons and was acting in self-defense because it was ''most seriously threatened'' by the United States. North Korea said it would use its nuclear program only for peaceful purposes ''at this stage.'' Soon after the announcement, the official North Korean news agency published an aggressive statement that called the United States warmongers and said: ''A new Korean War will finally lead to the Third World War. Let us see who will win and who will be defeated in a fire-to-fire standoff.'' While condemning the North Korean action, several countries urged a cautious and low-key response. In South Korea, which has taken a softer line than its allies in Washington, Mr. Kim said: ''Thanks to our efforts, the United States is now moving toward dialogue with North Korea. We have to make the Korean peninsula free of nuclear weapons. For this purpose, we have to be patient and persistent in achieving a peaceful solution.'' His successor, President-elect Roh Moo Hyun, also expressed ''deep regret'' at the North's action. The United States offered on Tuesday to talk with North Korea together with South Korea and Japan. It had earlier said it would not talk until North Korea halted its nuclear programs. The governments of South and North Korea will have an opportunity to discuss the situation at a cabinet-level meeting scheduled for Jan. 21-24 in Seoul. But North Korea says it wants to talk directly with the United States. President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan, leaders of two nations closely involved with North Korea, met on Friday in Moscow and issued a joint statement expressing ''regret and concern.'' Russia's Foreign Ministry criticized North Korea's decision, saying it would ''only exacerbate the already tense situation around the Korean Peninsula.'' But at the same time, in an acknowledgment of North Korea's security concerns, the statement called for ''an equal and mutually beneficial dialogue'' with all the parties involved. The United States has 37,000 troops stationed in South Korea and President Bush has called North Korea part of an ''axis of evil,'' which includes Iran and Iraq, against which the United States is preparing for a possible military attack. In their joint statement, the two leaders emphasized the need for a ''peaceful resolution of all questions linked to North Korea's nuclear program.'' Russian officials have repeatedly called for ''quiet diplomacy'' to resolve the crisis over North Korea's nuclear program, opposing suggestions by some to immediately take North Korea's decisions to the United Nations Security Council. Mr. de Villepin said on Friday that North Korea's declaration was ''a serious decision, heavy with consequences, that has to be dealt with by the United Nations Security Council.'' ''This major development underscores the necessity and urgency of international mobilization,'' he said. Michael Breen, a longtime commentator on Korean affairs, based in Seoul, said Pyongyang's goal was to engage the United States in serious talks in the hope of securing a nonaggression treaty and gaining further economic aid. ''They are brilliant at this sort of brinkmanship,'' he said. He warned that miscalculations by Pyongyang's insular leadership could be disastrous. He and other analysts suggested that North Korea might be seeking to take advantage of Washington's preoccupation with Iraq to squeeze the United States for concessions. ''The North's decision is an attempt to increase pressure on the United States while Washington is grappling with a possible war in Iraq,'' said Koh Yu Hwan, a professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk University. 