A breeze block was put through the back window of Marian Quinn's husband's car at Coshowen, in Galliagh in the early hours of Wednesday morning. A petrol container was found by the fire service on the back seat. Mrs Quinn said the police warned her on Tuesday night that they had received a threat from the Real IRA that all Catholic members of the DPP throughout Northern Ireland are what they called "legitimate targets". She said she is still considering whether to leave the DPP. "I am frightened for myself and I am frightened for my family, what mother wouldn't be," she said. "But a stand has to be taken and these men have to be told no, enough is enough, we have just had enough of it.  S IBOX   E IBOX  "Nobody can tell me what a legitimate target is and I would really like some of them to come to me, speak to me and tell me what I am doing that is so wrong." The attack is the latest in a series of threats to members of policing partnerships across the province. So far, two people have resigned their posts following intimidation. Teresa Rooney, a member of Cookstown DPP, stood down on Tuesday and last week an independent nationalist in Fermanagh resigned following a threat from the Real IRA.   Other attacks have included an attack on a car belonging to a DDP member in Strabane which was set alight outside the school where he was teaching and a hoax bomb which was left outside the home of a DPP chairman in Tyrone. The Stormont Security Minister, Jane Kennedy, praised the bravery of the DPP members who have been targeted in the past week.  Mrs Kennedy said the security of all members is kept under review. "I understand that these specific attacks have been brought forward by the Real IRA who owe allegiance to nobody and have utter disregard, it would appear to anyone," she said. "This really is the lowest form of bullying." The vice-chairman of the Policing Board, Denis Bradley, said the attack on Mrs Quinn and others in the policing partnerships were reprehensible and must be totally condemned. "This attack was an attack not just on Mrs Quinn and her family, but on the entire Catholic community by members of the Catholic community," he said. "It is totally unacceptable and I know that the Catholic community will not allow itself to be threatened and bullied in this way."  The Sinn Fein chairperson, Mitchel McLaughlin, condemned the attack as "cowardly and unjustifiable". He said that those responsible were devoid of political strategy.  News of the incidents came as Policing Oversight Commissioner Tom Constantine said that threats from dissident republicans to kill community policing board members were the biggest test yet for the new arrangements. On Tuesday, Mr Constantine urged political leaders and clergymen to intensify efforts to combat the threat.  S IBOX   E IBOX  "This is the first time I have been here that I have seen a fully fledged intent to destroy the Patten (police reform) plan," he said. "The intimidation of citizens' groups trying to work with police has a chilling effect on the entire neighbourhood and community."  "Some people, whether their reasons are political or criminal, want to destroy the Patten reforms. "I know this won't work, because I have met a number of people serving on the DPPs and I don't see people who are intimidated. I see determined and courageous people." Policing Board Vice Chairman Denis Bradley said he feared more members of district policing partnerships would resign. "I think we are going to see more individuals leave. This is regrettable but is understandable because such people have to take into account family issues," he said. The President of the Methodist Church in Northern Ireland, Reverend Jim Rea, called on the nationalist community and politicians to support the district policing partnerships. "Even though they may not necessarily agree with them serving on the partnerships, it's very important that they support their right to be there," he said.  E BO  