DoS attack37.txt
Fourteen people, including two children, were killed when a vehicle drove through crowds in Barcelona's busy Las Ramblas district on Thursday. The area's popularity with tourists means the victims came from many different countries. Soon afterwards a Spanish man was found stabbed to death inside a car thought to have been hijacked by the Ramblas van attacker.Hours later a woman was killed by the attackers who ploughed a car into tourists in the resort town of Cambrils, further down the coast.More than 100 other people from 34 different countries were injured in the attacks and, as of 27 August, 24 people were still receiving treatment in hospital, five of them in a critical condition. 's foreign ministry said two of its citizens had died:A woman from  was among the first to be confirmed dead. Elke Vanbockrijck, 44, was a postal worker from the town of Tongeren who was on holiday with her husband and two sons.One  was killed, named as Ian Moore Wilson. His wife Valerie was also injured,  their daughter, Vancouver Police Staff Sergeant Fiona Wilson. She described her father as "always game for a lively debate, a good book, exploring new places, and a proper-sized pint".A woman, 51, died in hospital on 27 AugustTwo  were killed, in addition to dual Argentine citizen Carmen Lopardo:"Italy will remember Bruno Gulotta and Luca Russo and expresses its solidarity with their families," the prime minister  (in Italian). "Freedom will triumph over barbarism and terrorism." has confirmed the deaths of two citizens. Prime Minister Antonio Costa said a 74-year-old woman from Lisbon died during the attack, and Portuguese media say her 20-year-old granddaughter, a resident of London, had also died.Six  victims have been confirmed, among them: citizen , a 43-year-old on honeymoon with his wife, Heidi, was also killed. Mr Tucker leaves behind three teenage daughters. Seven-year-old Julian Alessandro Cadman, ,  several days after the attack took place. He was initially reported missing after he was separated from his mother, who was seriously injured in the attack. His grandfather, Tony Cadman, made a public appeal after Julian went missing, urging people to share his photograph on social media. UK Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson offered his sympathies to Julian's family and said: "His death is a tragedy."Batch of home testing kits identified and each household being contacted, Matt Hancock tells MPs.Check out what's already available on BBC iPlayerCheck out kitchen-disco queen Sophie Ellis-Bextor's helpful tips© 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.  