phishing27.txt
WASHINGTON — If you get an Internet appeal from Gen. , the senior American commander in Iraq, asking you to pay lots of money to get your son or daughter out of combat duty, don’t believe it. And certainly don’t send the $200,000. General Odierno acknowledged Friday that he is but one more victim of a social networking scheme offering a big — but fake — benefit, if you send big amounts of real money. “I’ve had several scam artists on Facebook use and then go out asking people for all kinds of money: ‘If you pay $200,000, your son can get sent home early,’” General Odierno said at a Pentagon news conference. “So we’re constantly going after these scam artists that are out there,” he added. “And we are very aware of all of these that are going on, and we have a very robust capability to attempt to take care of it.” A number of on-line criminals have tried to bilk American troops deployed to Iraq and their families. To try to thwart Internet intruders who hijacked his name, General Odierno said he has posted a large warning on his social networking site. “I that says, ‘If anybody asks you for money in my name, don’t believe it,’” he said. “But it’s a problem.” At War is a reported blog from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq and other conflicts in the post-9/11 era. The New York Times's award-winning team provides insight — and answers questions — about combatants on the faultlines, and civilians caught in the middle. The New York Times has established an education fund for the children of Sultan Munadi, an Afghan journalist who was slain in Afghanistan in 2009. Learn more about him and how you can contribute Marine Corps Captain Calum Rammhe, a longtime marathon runner, ran seven marathons on seven continents in seven days to raise money for a charity that supports wounded Marines and their families. It also let him reflect on why running is more than a hobby for him. A physical therapist describes the powerful bonds she formed with the wounded veterans and her fellow physical and occupational therapists at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center. A former Marine Corps officer argues that good leadership makes all the difference in smoothing the integration of women into combat units. Hundreds of letters from an Army private named Harold Grove Moss, whose tour of duty spanned Pearl Harbor to the surrender of Japan, have been transcribed and posted online by his daughter. A Vietnam-era veteran says presidential candidates should not be judged harshly just because they did not serve during that war. 