phishing14.txt
As recently as a year ago, Dana C. Giacchetto was an investment adviser to the stars, counting actors, rock bands and artists among his clients. He moved in a world of high-powered entertainment deals, and his boyish face stared from the pages of national magazines. But his small investment company began losing a string of clients during the winter, and in March federal agents searched his home and office. Yesterday, federal prosecutors in Manhattan charged that Mr. Giacchetto, 37, looted more than $6 million from clients and lied to securities investigators about financial problems at his company, the Cassandra Group. Although prosecutors would not identify which clients lost money, Mr. Giacchetto, who was charged with stock fraud, has listed Matt Damon, Ben Stiller and the rock group Phish among his clientele, according to records filed in court. Mr. Giacchetto's company managed more than $100 million for 305 clients in 1999, according to records filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Yesterday, a federal judge granted a request by securities officials to freeze his company's assets. S.E.C. lawyers say that Mr. Giacchetto billed himself as a safe and conservative money manager to appeal to artists and entertainers who had considerable wealth but lacked financial sophistication. The company's brochures said that the Cassandra Group never had direct custody of its clients' money, and therefore ''assures the client security of his or her account.'' Instead, the company deposited the money with a separate company. Mr. Giacchetto was allowed to make stock trades with the money, but he was never supposed to take custody of the money. But Mr. Giacchetto did not abide by the terms of the bargain, federal prosecutors from the Southern District of New York said. They said that from 1997 until March 20, 2000, Mr. Giacchetto improperly transferred $20 million from his clients' bank accounts into his company's accounts. Once it was there, prosecutors charged, Mr. Giacchetto took about $6 million in various ways. He used some of the money to pay Cassandra's business expenses, and other money to pay his own bills, including travel, dining and rent at his SoHo loft, the prosecutors said. Other money was used to repay clients whose money had previously been taken, they said. Prosecutors also charged that Mr. Giacchetto made hundreds of thousands of dollars in unauthorized loans to friends. They said he also donated $90,000 to the New York Arts Academy and $5,000 to the New York Police Scholarship Fund. Mr. Giacchetto also took $12,000 to make a down payment for a leased Mercedes Benz, prosecutors said. Examiners from the Securities and Exchange Commission began to uncover problems at the Cassandra Group during an examination in December, said Wayne Carlin, associate regional director for the S.E.C. Officials would not say why they conducted the examination, but several newspapers published articles about the company at about the same time. During the review, examiners were struck by the lack of financial records. ''A lot of the basic financial records Mr. Giacchetto either claimed he did not have or failed to make available,'' Mr. Carlin said. He said that the S.E.C. eventually obtained the records from clients or from a search warrant that the F.B.I. executed on Mr. Giacchetto's home and office in March. Mr. Carlin said that Mr. Giacchetto did not stop making the transfers once the S.E.C. examiners began work. In fact, he said, Mr. Giacchetto made transfers even after the F.B.I. searched his business. Mr. Giacchetto, who did not appear in court yesterday, was out of the country and was expected to return today, his lawyer, Andrew J. Levander, said. Mr. Levander would not comment on the criminal case, saying he has not had a chance to speak with his client or fully read the documents. If convicted on all charges, Mr. Giacchetto would face up to 10 years in federal prison. 