phishing19.txt
DINING OUT IN the sweet languor of these long days, if summer vacation is still weeks away, an evening feasting on lobster, steamers or fish and chips at the Fish Cellar can produce the illusion of having a picnic or dining at the shore now. Weather permitting, a seat at a table on the back patio will heighten that fantasy. The work in the kitchen could use more supervision. Occasionally, salads were swamped in the creamy dressing of the house, seasoning was absent or excessive and timing was off. But the sublime freshness and clean flavor of the fish was constant. It would be hard to find better. Perky green house salads came with the entree and made the first course for many diners. But it would be a pity to miss some fine appetizers, among them cool, pristine selections from the raw bar. Which oysters are on hand -- usually three or four -- depend on seasonal availability. Fans might try two of each, to compare. Try adding a mere drop or two of lemon or mignonnette dressing to each. Equally clean, deliciously coppery clams on the half shell profited from the same treatment. Coupled with a dash of citrus, black caviar, mignonnette or ginger soy, the half-dozen oysters in a progressive oyster tasting lost none of their character and gained even more interest. This sampling was much more exciting than a tasting (unaccountably called ''vertical'') of several broiled fish, a horizontal arrangement without sauce or other camouflage. Diners curious to learn the true taste of the individual fish might try this offering. Roll up your sleeves for a huge plateful of steamer clams with traditional accompaniments: dip in the broth, then in drawn butter -- and damn the mess. Throw the shells into a tin pail. While Prince Edward Island mussels with cilantro (promised tomatoes and sourdough croutons absent) were decent, they couldn't hold a candle to a special of juicy green-lipped mussels laved with a thin tarragon/red pepper sauce. Served warm, sauteed seafood salad, another special, was so rich it could have served as an entree: small chunks of variously textured seafood arrived heaped in a martini glass -- magnificent. Equally rich and delectable were five caramelized sea scallops. With all the fine choices, there seemed no reason to bother with ordinary crisped calamari with timid tomato sauce. Salt, not spice, made grilled spicy shrimps inedible. Steamed and unadorned is the way we like our lobster, but here a terrific grilled version won us over. Not at all dry and charred, the meat remained succulent under a buttery topping of corn salsa with lots of cilantro. Baked halibut (special) with scallop risotto proved divinely clear flavored as did a piece of swordfish perched on mashed potatoes. Despite the high quality of fish employed -- excellent salmon, tuna and grouper as well as the ingredients in bouillabaisse -- other entrees missed the mark because of careless seasoning, overcooking or soupy plating. Bland bouillabaisse could have used a kick from garlicky rouille, a sauce often served with this dish. Shreds of raw sweet potato topped fine tuna, but flaky salmon drowned in flavorless broth. And overcooked grouper, mashed potatoes and asparagus were so bland they might have come from a hospital kitchen. Excepting heavy linzer torte and wittily named Phish (fish) ice cream -- an overwrought mix of chocolate, marshmallow and fish-shaped chocolate bits -- most desserts were worth considering: apple tart, small and exquisite white chocolate mousse, mixed berries with vanilla ice cream and nicely puckery Key lime tart. (Baked items came from the Bedford Village Bakery.) Dinner that includes an appetizer, house salad, entree and dessert averages $36 without drinks, tax and tip. The Fish Cellar 213 Main Street, Mount Kisco. 666-4448. VERY GOOD ATMOSPHERE -- Attractive, partitioned basement dining areas. Small front patio and back garden. Handsome, separate raw bar. Efficient, knowledgeable service. SMOKING -- None indoors. RECOMMENDED DISHES -- (The menu changes frequently.) Steamed clams, warm seafood salad, progressive oyster tasting, seared sea scallops, steamed green-lipped mussels, halibut with risotto, steamed or grilled lobster, grilled swordfish, white chocolate mousse, apple tart, mixed berries. PRICES -- Dinner, main dishes, $17.50 to $31; lobster priced daily. CREDIT CARDS -- MasterCard and Visa. HOURS -- Dinner, Tuesday through Fridays, 5 to 10 P.M.; Saturdays, 5 to 10:30 P.M. RESERVATIONS -- Necessary on weekends. WHEELCHAIR ACCESS -- Steps at entrance. THE RATINGS -- Excellent, Very Good, Good, Satisfactory, Poor. Ratings reflect the reviewer's reaction primarily to food, with ambience and service taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change. 