phishing11.txt
NEWS On the Road Woody Guthrie was a wandering minstrel who roamed the United States from California to Coney Island, writing and singing songs that celebrated working men and women and chronicling the travails of the Dust Bowl and the Depression. On Saturday a Smithsonian Institution traveling exhibition will have ''blowed into New York town,'' as Guthrie put it in ''Talkin' Subway Blues.'' Continuing through April 23 at the Museum of the City of New York, the exhibition, ''This Land Is Your Land,'' draws on rarely seen objects, film, art illustration, interviews and previously unreleased music. Going Strong Stars of the Grammy Award-winning platinum recording and prize-winning film ''Buena Vista Social Club'' are reconvening in the metropolitan area for three days starting tomorrow. Ibrahim Ferrer, who began singing in 1941, and the pianist Ruben Gonzalez, who helped create the Cuban sound in the 1940's, will be joined by the singer Omara Portuondo and the Orquesta Ibrahim Ferrer tomorrow at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark and on Friday and Saturday at the Beacon Theater in Manhattan. This is part of an 18-city tour of the United States and Canada bound for the D.A.R. Constitution Hall in Washington on Monday and Symphony Hall in Baltimore on Tuesday. The tour ends on Feb. 29 in Vancouver. Story Hour Carrying $150,000, the International Impac Dublin Literary Award is described as the world's largest prize for a single work of fiction. The current award winner is Andrew Miller, a native of England and citizen of Ireland selected by an international panel of judges for ''Ingenious Pain,'' about an 18th-century English physician who cannot feel pain. At 12:30 p.m. today, he is to read from his novel at the Donnell Library Center, 20 West 53rd Street, Manhattan. All Together On the Tibetan calendar, the Year of the Iron Dragon arrives on Saturday. Tibet House New York will present its eighth annual benefit concert that evening at 7:30 at Carnegie Hall. Among those to perform are Trey Anastasio of the band Phish; David Byrne, a former Talking Head; the composer Philip Glass, the Tibetan flutist Nawang Khechong, the African pop diva Angelique Kidjo, the Canadian Celtic-punk fiddler Ashley MacIsaac, the singer-songwriter Rufus Wainwright and the Gomang Monks. The concert coincides with the Monlam Prayer Festival, a popular Tibetan event that sought world peace and prosperity. It was canceled by the Chinese government in 1988. LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 