phishing18.txt
POP REVIEW The Phish groove surged through the PNC Bank Arts Center here tonight as the Vermont band turned on its juice for the first Northeastern date of its annual summer tour. This groove, as always, had a distinctive effect on fans. They twitched, twirled and watched themselves move their own hands in mysterious patterns. Walking through this captivated group was as challenging as jumping into the most raucous punk mosh pit. So long as Phish kept pushing its buoyant, speedy beat, hardly anyone could step out of the electrified dance. Yet for the nontwirler, ensconced in a safe corner, the groove was one of the less interesting aspects of Phish's show. Like most staples, it had a uniform flavor. To keep fans dancing, Phish had to return to that accelerating rush, dominated by Trey Anastasio's guitar-tweaking and Jon Fishman's hyperactive drumming. The groove wasn't slippery, like great funk, or intriguingly hesitant, as blues can be; it straightforwardly did its job. What made Phish interesting musically was everything that went on around, behind and within the groove. Mr. Anastasio proved himself a seriously adventurous guitarist, making a racket with sequencers, looping and pitch shifters. The keyboardist Page McConnell countered Mr. Anastasio's futurism with blasts from the past, tossing in some boogie-woogie or even cool jazz. The rhythm section of Mr. Fishman and Mike Gordon on bass subtly stretched out even while tending that groove, anchoring quick time changes and intersecting riffs. What was truly intriguing was the fusion Phish achieved. When the band emerged a decade ago, its goofily cerebral sound was a liberal arts major turned into music -- eclectic to a fault and earnestly dilettantish. Luckily, Phish has evolved beyond collegiate showing-off. Tonight's show still traveled rock's map from New Orleans to Chicago and Nashville to San Francisco. A cover of the Rolling Stones song ''Loving Cup'' represented the band's mainstream side, while the chorus of ''Harry Hood,'' which might have been lifted from the soundtrack to ''Chitty Chitty Bang Bang,'' proved its enduring wackiness. But there was no distance between the styles Phish claimed. Instead, speedy bluegrass melded with anthemic, Who-style rock, and corny smooth jazz met its end in a dissonant swell. Rock's rhythm was the safety casing for this experimentation; it soon reasserted itself, even when Phish tried more traditional pop songs. Old-fashioned songcraft isn't Phish's strength; Mr. Anastasio's singing is nondescript, and the mix of Frank Zappa-style humor and soft-rock melodies can induce a serious case of the cringes. But relief came quickly whenever that happened, as the drums kicked in, the guitar squeaked and the groove returned. 