phishing15.txt
ROCK REVIEW If a band's performance can be judged by the state of extremities, the String Cheese Incident was having a very good night Saturday at Hammerstein Ballroom. Michael Kang, electric guitarist and mandolinist for this group from Boulder, Colo., relaxed in white socks, while the bassist and drummer, Keith Mosely and Michael Travis, showed their toes au naturel. The acoustic guitarist, Bill Nershi, started out in hiking sneakers but soon kicked them off and later wiggled out of his sweat socks. Only Kyle Hollingsworth, behind the keyboards, displayed the relative uptightness of the completely shod. The freed foot is a fine symbol for this group, one of the most popular jam bands based West of the Mississippi. There's a clean, outdoorsy feeling in the musicians' approach, which stresses quick virtuoso turns as they fit into the team effort at danceable improvisation. The group mostly avoids both the spaciness of some more psychedelic outfits and the groin-grinding blues stomp of the ones who take after the Allman Brothers. It mixes American roots traditions with Latin and African influences, swiftly traveling among styles within songs. This is a wholesome and altogether relaxed bunch. The String Cheese Incident sounds more purely like the Grateful Dead than do some of its peers, because it eschews the wacky, Frank Zappa-influenced strain explored by Phish and Moe. The late-period Dead style, when the percussionist Mickey Hart brought in many world influences, seemed particularly relevant to Saturday's show. At Hammerstein, the group members traded solos without competing. Mr. Kang was the most rock-influenced, unleashing soaring runs on his electric guitar. Country-flavored moments centered around Mr. Nershi's acoustic riffs, while Mr. Hollingsworth added jazz-soul flavor. Mr. Travis demonstrated an easy mastery, even sometimes playing the conga with one hand and a cymbal with another. He was joined by the percussionist Aaron Johnston for several songs, including the salsa-tinged ''Latinismo.'' The fiddler Darol Anger also stepped in on selected numbers, steering the groove from Cuba to Morocco, and then toward the golden hills of his native Northern California. The wholesome mood was further enhanced by lyrics dwelling on American Indian spirituality and New Age-style self-help. ''I see a shining light,'' Mr. Nershi crooned. ''You don't have a right to keep that locked up, no!'' The spinning, swaying crowd delighted in the instruction to be good by feeling good. Robert Bradley, who led his group Blackwater Surprise in a brief but compelling opening set, understands the worth of more unsettling emotions. A 50-year-old blind African-American and former street musician, he was discovered in the mid-1990's by the young white rockers now backing him. Now he is making the most of the chance to bring his Otis Redding-influenced shouting to a receptive audience. The band, anchored by the brothers Michael and Andrew Nehra on guitar and bass respectively, created vintage 1960's soul settings for Mr. Bradley's testimonies. At times the songs drifted into vagueness, with Mr. Bradley seemingly mired in thought. But when he projected, his raw delivery focused the band, and the music fulfilled the requirements of serious soul music. 