phishing13.txt
THE POP LIFE The average price of gasoline has hit yet another record high, rising for the ninth week, to $1.53 a gallon. Such inflation is hard on commuters, trucking companies and owners of sport utility vehicles. But there is another vehicle-dependent class that may be among the hardest hit in the short term: rock bands and other touring musicians. For many fledgling acts crisscrossing the country on their own dime and performing low-paying gigs in hopes of building an audience, the surge in gas prices has been crippling. ''We have a diesel truck, and in some places the gas is over $2 a gallon,'' said Pete Donnelly, the bassist and singer with a New York City rock group, the Figgs. ''So for a band like us, where we're not making a lot of money, the gas really affects us, especially when we get out to the Midwest and West Coast and have to drive eight hours between shows. We've had to cut all our extra costs, including our road manager.'' Bands are affected not only by the extra costs but also by concerns that gas prices will deter fans from traveling long distances to get to their shows. ''I just drove to Washington, D.C., this weekend for a show, and we spent more money on gas than we did on the tickets,'' said Ginger Nance, a senior at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, of a recent concert by the English rock band Gomez. ''I'm in college, and I don't have much money. So if it's going to cost $40 to get to a show, on top of parking and ticket costs, I'll definitely reconsider going to so many shows.'' Concert promoters said they had not yet seen a noticeable dip in ticket sales. But they worry that if gas prices continue to rise, that could have a significant impact on the summer music season, when the majority of big-name concerts take place. This is particularly worrying because they also anticipate a rise in the price of concert tickets this summer and most summer amphitheaters are an hour or so outside major cities, making gas prices an even bigger factor. The combination of steep ticket prices, service charges, inflation in fuel prices, parking costs and all the other incidentals of concertgoing (not to mention the difficulty of getting tickets to an in-demand show) could make attending a concert daunting. Others in the industry do not expect any major fallout, said Bob Grossweiner, a concert-business analyst, because in the elastic world of popular music ''the higher the price of the ticket, the faster it sells.'' He did note, however, that if high gas prices continued to increase bands' touring expenses, a result could be even higher ticket prices. Particularly affected by the gas gain may be so-called jam bands like Phish and Widespread Panic, whose devoted audiences often follow them from city to city. ''I think the increase in gas prices most certainly weighs heavily on the minds of anyone hitting multiple shows in a row,'' said Andy Gadiel, who runs the Web site Jambase.com as well as a popular Phish fan site, though he added that it would take a lot more than expensive gasoline to keep a hard-core fan from attending a show. Seymour Guenther, a booking agent at the Nancy Fly Agency in Austin, Tex., said the gasoline hike could make a difference in the way tours are routed. ''I was thinking that we may have to look at getting more money for them out there,'' he said of his touring acts. ''The sudden rise in prices really has changed the amount of money that they bring home. We have a guy out right now who bought an old van and thought he could get around cheaply. But it's only getting 12 miles to the gallon, and it's eating his lunch.'' That is Slaid Cleaves, whose rootsy album is currently topping the Americana charts. ''It's just one more challenge out there,'' Mr. Cleaves said from a tour stop in Kentucky. ''When you have to shell out $45 to $50 a night for gas, it hurts. Right now we're doing a radio show that doesn't pay any money and was a day out of our way. And maybe we wouldn't have done that if we knew gas was $1.50 a gallon.'' The Memphis band Those Bastard Souls could not pay for a hotel room one night after putting $50 into the gas tank. ''It's like putting a hotel room into your gas tank,'' said David Shouse, the band's singer. On its current tour the group became obsessed with filling stations and prices. ''We keep track of gas prices every day in the news,'' Mr. Shouse said. ''Then we play the gas game and try to discover gas stations we've never gone to before. We bought no brand-name gas at all on this tour. But it's almost like Russian roulette, because you wonder when you're going to get a tankful of water by going the cheap route.'' Todd Herfindal, the singer and guitarist with the unsigned San Francisco band Blue Sky Roadster, said there was one advantage to the soaring prices. ''We just did a stint down to Las Vegas, Los Angeles and back, and it was almost $300 in gas for a big van,'' he said. ''Our bass player put it all on his Shell card, and we're all going to pay him back. But at least he gets miles on his air fare for it, and now he's going to Puerto Vallarta in May.'' 