Teaching ideas based on New York Times content. In this lesson, students research different types of identity-theft fraud and ways to avoid falling victim to various scams. They then create focused public service announcements in different media, targeted to individuals most susceptible to consumer fraud.  Clayton DeKorne, The New York Times Learning Network Yasmin Chin Eisenhauer, The Bank Street College of Education in New York City 1 hour Students will: 1. Analyze a fraudulent e-mail. 2. Learn about a common type of e-mail fraud known as “phishing” by reading and discussing the article “Online Swindlers, Called ‘Phishers,’ Lure Unwary.” 3. In groups, develop a targeted message and storyboard a public service announcement to help consumers avoid different types of fraud. 4. Reflect on the creative process of developing a media concept and suggest ways for improving their messages. –student journals –pens/pencils –paper –classroom blackboard –copies of “Online Swindlers, Called ‘Phishers,’ Lure Unwary” (one per student) –computers with Internet access –poster board or large pieces of paper –markers and colored pencils (enough for groups to share) 1. WARM-UP/DO-NOW: Prior to class, visit Snopes.com ( ). Read and print out the sample scam e-mail to “all eBay users”, and review the related explanation for help in guiding the follow-up discussion. Then make copies of the e-mail to distribute to students. Upon entering class, students respond to the following prompt (written on the board prior to class): “If you received this message in your email, what would you do with it. Would you be more inclined to act if you are a regular user of eBay? What does the URL (link address) tell you about the origin of this message? Do you think it’s real? Why or why not?” After a few minutes, allow students to share their responses. Make sure students know that the e-mail is a scam and is not real. Even though the address goes through eBay, it links to a counterfeit eBay “Security Update” form, which asks for personal data such as eBay user names and passwords, credit card numbers, and Social Security numbers. 2. As a class, read and discuss the article “Online Swindlers, Called ‘Phishers,’ Lure Unwary,” focusing on the following questions: a. What is “phishing”? Give some examples cited in the article. b. According to government officials and private investigators, who are the most likely groups behind most phishing attempts? c. How is fraudulent email spread that makes it so difficult to track? d. Do federal investigators think Helen Carr is a typical phisher? Why or why not? e. According to Christopher Wray, what is the single biggest type of consumer fraud? f. According to the article, why is it often difficult to tell the difference between a legitimate and fraudulent email? g. What are some ways phishers try to hook unwary recipients, according to the article? h. What are some technological solutions attempted by Microsoft, eBay and PayPal? i. How effective are these solutions, according to Howard Schmidt of eBay? j. What other solutions are helpful, according to the article? 3. Divide students in four groups. Explain to students that each group will be researching a different class of fraud, gathering tips to avoid falling victim to this form of fraud, and compiling the information into the form of a public service announcement (PSA). Each group should present their public service announcement in a medium that is at least indirectly related to the medium in which each type of fraud is dispersed. Assign each group the following fraud and media type (written on the board or copied in a handout for easier student access): Group 1: Mail fraud (PSA presentation form: print) Students in this group may wish to begin their research at the United States Postal Service’s “Mail Fraud” page ( ). Group 2: Email and other Internet fraud (PSA presentation form: interactive, web-based feature) Students in this group may wish to begin their research at the United States Department of Justice’s “Fraud Section” ( ). Students in this group may also wish to visit The New York Times multimedia pages (  ). Group 4: Telemarketing fraud (PSA presentation form: radio) Students in this group may wish to begin their research at the United States Department of Justice’s “Telemarketing Fraud” Web page ( ). Each group will create a mock-up, storyboard and/or script for a public service announcement, using the following guidelines (written on the board or copied in a handout for easier student access): –How does this type of fraud work? Give an example. –How is this type of fraud spread? –What are some ways people can avoid falling victim to this type of fraud? –What target population, do you think, most needs to know how to avoid this type of fraud? –For this target audience, what is the important “take home” message you have to tell about avoiding this type of fraud? State this “message concept” in one sentence. –Design a setting, and populate it with characters and a scenario (drawn from an example of this type of fraud) that dramatizes your “take home” message. If time allows, reconvene as a class and “wind down” with the following question: “How is the type of media for your group’s PSA appropriate to conveying information about this fraud?” 4. WRAP-UP/HOMEWORK: Each group completes their mock-up, storyboard and/or script for their PSA. If possible, students should print, record, video tape, or otherwise create their public service announcement and present to the class for a critical peer review in a future class. Individually, students respond to the following prompt (written on the board for students to copy before leaving class): “Write a short (one-page) reflection on the creative process you pursued to develop your public service announcement. What information did you need to collect before you could develop the PSA? How did your group come up with the concept? Why do you think this announcement would be effective? How do you think it could be improved?” –What is spam? Do you think spammers should be allowed to send solicitations to unknown email users? Why or why not? –What makes you trust what you read in an e-mail, instant message, or Web page? How can this trust be abused in each of these online formats? –Do people have an ethical obligation to tell the truth on the Internet? Why or why not? –Is it easier to be untruthful on the Internet than with other forms of media? Why or why not? –What is the difference between “illegal” and “unethical”? Should the government determine what is “ethical” on the Internet? What might be the dangers of this? Students will be evaluated based on initial journal writing, thoughtful participation in class discussions, accurate research about fraud, and thoughtful completion of a targeted public service announcement and process summary. phishers, fraudulent, sophisticated, enterprise, impersonating, stratification, amateurs, scheme, legitimate, bogus, fleeced, recipient, accessible 1. What is a “spybot” or “spyware”? Many legitimate Internet companies use these secret pieces of code to monitor the Web habits of visitors. Explore how spyware works and how companies use it. Determine the specific types of information spybots can gather. Then write an article for your local newspaper that informs consumers about the nature of these secret codes. Are they benign or do they undermine consumer privacy? Give reasons to support your opinion. 2. Create a presentation poster that illustrates the difference between a computer virus and a worm. How does a virus or worm distribute email messages that appear to originate from your computer? Civics- What recommendations does the Federal Trade Commission offer for preventing Internet fraud? What different types of online fraud does this agency address? Investigate the agency’s recommendations, and write a “Web-Savvy Guide to Online Communications.” Global History- Write an article that explores what is being done in other countries to control the proliferation of spam, phishing, and e-mail viruses. What can a country do to control phishers who operate beyond its borders? What global Internet security agreements do you think would be appropriate for countries to enter into together? Health- According to F.B.I. agent John Curran cited in today’s New York Times article, phishing often works because “the initial hook is something alarming. … once [phishers] get you in a state where you are agitated or excited, they can elicit an emotional response.” Why are people likely to act impulsively or subserviently in this state? What accounts for such psychological duress? Speculate on the psychology behind scams, fraud, and coercion, and use medical resources to supplement your own speculations. Then write a report that explores how can individuals train themselves to resist coercion and manage the stress of an agitated or excited state of mind. Language Arts- Read “The Great Gatsby” or “The Confidence Man,” and write an essay detailing how fraud plays a role in the narrative of the novel. What “cons” are presented in these works? How do the characters in the book respond to these fraudulent schemes? How might this work serve as a social commentary, and what role does fraud play in this commentary? Mathematics – If you receive six pieces of junk email per week, how many do you receive each year? What about your whole city or town (for example, if the population is 100,000 people all with e-mail accounts)? How about for a population of five million? Present your calculations to your peers. Grades 6-8 Technology Standard 3- Understands the relationships among science, technology, society, and the individual. Benchmarks: Knows ways in which technology and society influence one another; Knows examples of copyright violations and computer fraud (e.g., computer hacking, computer piracy, intentional virus setting, invasion of privacy) and possible penalties Language Arts Standard 1- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Uses style and structure appropriate for specific audiences and purposes; Writes persuasive compositions (CTSS – ‘english’, ‘6-8’, ‘1’) Language Arts Standard 7- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts. Benchmarks: Applies reading skills and strategies to a variety of informational texts; Knows the defining characteristics of a variety of informational texts; Identifies techniques used to convey viewpoint; Draws conclusions and makes inferences based on explicit and implicit information in texts; Differentiates between fact and opinion in informational texts (CTSS – ‘english’, ‘6-8’, ‘7’) Language Arts Standard 9- Uses a variety of criteria to evaluate and form viewpoints of visual media; Understands how language choice is used to enhance visual media; Understands how symbols, images, sound, and other conventions are used in visual media; Understands reasons for varied interpretations of visual media; Knows that people with special interests and expectations are the target audience for particular messages or products in visual media and knows that design, language, and content reflect this; Understands techniques used in visual media to influence or appeal to a particular audience (CTSS – ‘english’, ‘6-8’, ‘1’) Grades 9-12 Technology Standard 3- Understands the relationships among science, technology, society, and the individual. Benchmarks: Knows that alternatives, risks, costs, and benefits must be considered when deciding on proposals to introduce new technologies or to curtail existing ones Language Arts Standard 1- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Writes compositions that are focused for different audiences; Writes compositions that fulfill different purposes; Writes persuasive compositions that evaluate, interpret, and speculate about problems/solutions and causes and effects (CTSS – ‘english’, ‘9-12’, ‘1’) Language Arts Standard 7- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts. Benchmarks: Applies reading skills and strategies to a variety of informational texts; Knows the defining characteristics of a variety of informational texts; Evaluates the clarity and accuracy of information; Supports inferences about information in texts by referring to text features (CTSS – ‘english’, ‘9-12’, ‘7’) Language Arts Standard 9- Uses a variety of criteria to evaluate informative media; Understands that the rules and expectations about genres can be manipulated for particular effects or purposes; Understands the connection between context and values projected by visual media; Understands effects of style and language choice in visual media; Understands a variety of techniques used in advertising (CTSS – ‘english’, ‘9-12’, ‘9’) Comments are no longer being accepted. Sign up for our free . Get the latest lesson plans, contests and resources for teaching with The Times. 