phishing26.txt
On Tuesday the to a phishing scheme involving an imaginary Fed loan program. “Under this fraudulent scheme, targeted individuals are told that that they can work through a broker to access a Federal Reserve program that extends sizable secured loans to consumers,” the Fed said in a statement. “Consumers are encouraged to deposit large sums of money into a bank account, under the guise of a security deposit, in order to receive the purported loan.” The bailout terms, as it happens, were not quite that open-ended. Election Day seems to be a day particularly ripe for hoaxes. Also on Tuesday, students and faculty at George Mason University received an e-mail message ostensibly sent by a university official proclaiming that the election had been postponed. “Please note that election day has been moved to November 5th. We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause you,” the e-mail said, . G.M.U. is a school with a relatively conservative reputation (well, at least in its economics department, which is very free-market-oriented) that is located in the Democratic enclave of northern Virginia. I’m waiting for the conspiracy theories to roll in. For some more financial and political hoaxes, check out Snopes.com. Go for previous government-related phishing cases (which have cited the I.R.S. and the F.D.I.C., among others), and for more general e-mail hoaxes. Comments are no longer being accepted. , the chief financial correspondent of The New York Times, covers the world of finance and economics. covers business and economic topics for the Washington bureau of The New York Times. is an economics reporter for The New York Times. covers economic policy for the Washington bureau of The New York Times. is the Economic Scene columnist for The New York Times. is an economics reporter for The New York Times. Each day, Economix offers perspectives from expert contributors. Economix is coming to an end, but it will be succeeded by The Upshot, a new politics, policy and economics site. The higher cost for borrowers in a Senate bill reforming Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac corresponds to the protection for taxpayers that was missing in the old system, writes an economist. New car sales are up by more than 10 percent in Ireland, Greece, Spain and Portugal, which signals stronger economic growth there, even if sales are still far below 2007 levels. Much progress has been made on overseeing the largest banks, but a good deal more must be done to toughen standards and end government subsidies, an economist writes. The Affordable Care Act imposes economic burdens that are the equivalent of taxes, an economist writes. Economics doesn't have to be complicated. It is the study of our lives — our jobs, our homes, our families and the little decisions we face every day. Here at Economix, journalists and economists analyze the news and use economics as a framework for thinking about the world. We welcome feedback, at . 