malicious bot16.txt
In their persistent quest to breach the Internet's defenses, the bad guys are honing their weapons and increasing their firepower. With growing sophistication, they are taking advantage of programs that secretly install themselves on thousands or even millions of personal computers, band these computers together into an unwitting army of zombies and use the collective power of the hijacked network to commit Internet crimes. These systems, called botnets, are being blamed for a leap in the number of spam messages plaguing the Internet in recent months, as well as fraud and data theft. Security researchers have been concerned about botnets for some time because they automate and amplify the effects of viruses and other malicious programs. What is new is the escalating scale of the problem — and the precision with which some of the programs can scan computers for specific information, like corporate and personal data, to drain money from online bank and stockbrokerage accounts. "It's the perfect crime, both low- risk and high-profit," said Gadi Evron, a computer security researcher for an Israel-based firm, Beyond Security, who coordinates an international volunteer effort to fight botnets. "The war to make the Internet safe was lost long ago, and we need to figure out what to do now." Although there is a wide range of estimates of the overall infection rate, the scale and the power of the botnet programs have clearly become immense. David Dagon, a researcher at the Georgia Institute of Technology who is a co-founder of Damballa, a start- up company focusing on controlling botnets, said the consensus among scientists was that botnet programs were present on about 11 percent of the more than 650 million computers attached to the Internet. Plagues of viruses and other malicious programs have periodically swept through the Internet since 1988, when there were only 60,000 computers online. In recent years, however, such attacks have increasingly become endemic, forcing more stringent security responses. And the emergence of botnets has alarmed not just computer security experts but also specialists who created the early Internet infrastructure. "It represents a threat, but it's one that is hard to explain," said David Farber, a computer scientist at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh who was an Internet pioneer. "It's an insidious threat, and what worries me is that the scope of the problem is still not clear to most people." Farber said popular Windows-based computers were easy to penetrate, "and that's scary." So far botnets have primarily infected Windows-based computers, although there have been scattered reports of botnet-related attacks on computers running the Linux and Macintosh operating systems. The programs are often created by small groups of code writers in Eastern Europe and elsewhere and distributed in a variety of ways, including e-mail attachments and downloads by users who do not know they are getting something malicious. They can even be present in pirated software sold on online auction sites. Once installed on Internet-connected PCs, they can be controlled using a widely available communications system called Internet Relay Chat, or IRC. ShadowServer, a voluntary organization of computer security experts that monitors botnet activity, is now tracking more than 400,000 infected machines and about 1,450 separate IRC systems, which are called command and control servers. The financial danger can be seen in a technical report presented last summer by a security researcher who analyzed the information contained in a 200- megabyte file that he had intercepted. The file had been generated by a botnet that was systematically harvesting stolen information and then hiding it in a secret location where the data could be retrieved by the botnet master. The data in the file had been collected during a 30-day period, according to Rick Wesson, chief executive of Support Intelligence, a San Francisco- based company that sells information on computer security threats to corporations and federal agencies. The data came from 793 infected computers, and it generated 54,926 login credentials and 281 credit card numbers. The stolen information affected 1,239 companies, he said, including 35 stockbrokerages, 86 bank accounts, 174 electronic commerce accounts and 245 e- mail accounts. Sensor information collected by his company is now able to identify more than 250,000 new botnet infections daily, Wesson said. "We are losing this war badly," he said. "Even the vendors understand that we are losing the war." According to the annual intelligence report of MessageLabs, a New York- based computer security firm, more than 80 percent of all spam now originates from botnets. Last month, for the first time ever, a single Internet service provider generated more than a billion spam e-mail messages in a 24-hour period, according to a ranking system maintained by Trend Micro, a computer security firm based in Tokyo. That indicated that machines of the service providers' customers had been woven into a giant network, with a single control point using them to pump out spam. The extent of the botnet threat was underscored in recent months by the emergence of a version of the stealthy program that adds computers to the botnet. The program, which security researchers are calling "rustock," infected several hundred thousand Internet-connected computers and then began generating vast quantities of spam messages. Although rustock is being used for distributing spam, it is a more general tool that can be used with many other forms of illegal Internet activity. "It could be used for other types of malware as well," said Joe Stewart, a researcher at SecureWorks, an Atlanta- based computer security firm. "It's just a payload delivery system with extra stealth." 