Also included are initialisms used on the online parenting forum Mumsnet such as TTC - meaning trying to conceive. OED senior editor Fi Mooring said the words chosen will resonate "even with people who are not parents". The dictionary consults experts to determine what should be added to its 829,000 words. The OED is updated four times a year with the next update due in April 2018. Mansplaining is defined as explaining something "needlessly, overbearingly, or condescendingly, especially to a woman, in a manner thought to reveal a patronising or chauvinistic attitude". Researchers date early usage of that term to an internet exchange between a man and a woman in 2008. Although hangry has only come into common usage recently the word dates back to 1956 when it appeared in a psychoanalytic journal. The OED defines the new term snowflake as a description of someone who is "overly sensitive or as feeling entitled to special treatment or consideration". Ransomware is another new addition - less than a year since the NHS was one of a number of global institutions targeted by the that was carried out with the use of malicious software. Chaebol is formed by combining the Korean words chae, meaning wealth, and bol, meaning faction and, in South Korea, means a large business conglomerate. However, recently the word has been used to describe a luxurious lifestyle associated with families who own such businesses. The new list sees American rapper Jay-Z get his sixth OED citation with the word swag being added to the dictionary. Swag, derived from the word swagger, describes a bold, self-confident manner and appeared in Jay-Z's Black Album: "My self-esteem went through the roof, man. I got my swag." Here are some of his other citations: Cheese is American slang for money. Government cheese is a colloquial term for welfare benefits. EBT stands for electronic benefits transfer - a system of paying out benefits with a card used in the US. Handclaps is the sound made by the clapping of hands. The school of hard knocks is used to describe the experience of a life of hardship as an education. It comes after all over-50s and those in high-risk groups in the UK have been offered a first dose. Greta Thunberg is on a mission to save the planet.. People who have lived through extraordinary events and how their lives have been changed   