computer virus18.txt
Teaching ideas based on New York Times content. In this lesson, students investigate the physical and behavioral characteristics of different microbes and create research- based ‘Microbe Biographies.’ Students then visually compare microbe sizes and examine how the size of a microbe relates to its physical and behavioral characteristics.  Alison Zimbalist, The New York Times Learning Network 1 hour Students will: 1. Demonstrate their knowledge of microorganisms by defining their characteristics and providing examples. 2. Explore the debate over whether or not the nanobe is the smallest living creature by reading and discussing “Scientists Find Smallest Form of Life, if It Lives.” 3. Investigate, in small groups, the physical and behavioral characteristics of different microbes. 4. Create research- based “Microbe Biographies” of the assigned microbes; convert the sizes of their microbes to a visible scale; compare microbe sizes and examine how the size of a microbe relates to its physical and behavioral characteristics. -student journals -paper -pens/pencils -classroom blackboard -definition of “microbe” from science textbook -copies of “Scientists Find Smallest Form of Life, If It Lives” (one per student) -resources with information on different microbes (science textbooks, biology resources, computers with Internet access) -binders or folders for binding “Microbe Biographies” (one per group) -markers, crayons or colored pencils -long strip of paper 1. WARM-UP/DO-NOW: In their journals, students respond to the following questions (written on the board prior to class): What is a microorganism, or microbe? What different types of microbes exist? How are they different from other organisms? Students then share their answers. Provide a science textbook’s definition of “microbe” for students to include in their class notes. 2. As a class, read and discuss “Scientists Find Smallest Form of Life, if It Lives,” focusing on the following questions: a. What is the debate regarding nanobes, as described in this article? b. How do nanobes compare in size to other microorganisms, and how does this relate to the debate about them? c. What would be the scientific significance of proving that nanobes are living organisms? d. Where were nanobes first discovered, and what physical and behavioral characteristics did scientists observe? e. What proof exists that nanobes are living organisms? f. How do some scientists refute that nanobes are living organisms? g. What was the previous “size limit” for living things, and how do nanobes challenge that limit? h. Why does Dr. Baross argue that “there’s no way a free-living cell is going to be less than 100 nanometers”? How does Dr. Pace support Dr. Baross’s views? i. What does Dr. Baross mean when he suggests that we think of nanobes as “components that function as a living organism only in totality, the whole being greater than the sum of the parts”? j. What is a meta-cell, and why is it discussed in this article? k. How are scientists trying to prove that nanobes are, in fact, alive? What experiments are they conducting, and what are their findings? l. Why would better understanding nanobes help us learn about whether or not there was ever life on Mars? 3. Divide students into nine small groups, and assign each group one of the following microbes as the focus of research: Escherichia coli O157:H7 (e-coli bacteria), Salmonella (bacteria), Hepatitis A Virus (HAV), Aspergillus (fungus), Penicillium (fungus), Cladosporium (fungus), Phytoplankton (microscopic algae), Amoeba (protozoan), Paramecium (protozoan). Each group then researches their microbe using all available classroom materials, focusing on the following (written on the board for easier student reference): -size -age (how long microbe has been in existence, if known) -where found -physical structure (create an illustration or set of illustrations, and label parts) -reproduction -functions in the world (how the lives of other organisms depend on, or are affected by, this microbe) -scientists associated with discovery and experiments 4. WRAP-UP/HOMEWORK: Explain to students that their groups will be creating a “Microbe Biography” of their microbe. Students should incorporate the answers to all of their research topics into narrative form, written from the perspective of the microbe, so they are actually autobiographies. The “Microbe Biographies” should be illustrated and written in easily understandable language, and each of the research topics should be addressed in separately identified sections. Groups should “bind” their work in a binder or folder and present it during the next class, after which it will be available for use as classroom a resource. In a future class, students should focus on comparing the sizes of the researched microbes. Groups should convert the size of their microbe on the scale of 1 nanometer= 1 centimeter, and then draw this accurately-scaled microbe on a piece of paper (Brown wrapping paper is recommended because it is available in large dimensions.). Groups should then label their drawings with the names of the microbe and their actual sizes. Microbes can then be taped on the wall or on a long strip of paper from smallest to largest. You might also have students illustrate small animals (such as insects) on this same scale to include on the chart for comparison. How do microbes compare to each other in size? What are the functions of larger microbes in comparison to smaller microbes? –What characteristics qualify an organism as living or non-living? –How does the size of a living organism relate to its physical and behavioral characteristics? –What is a microbe? –How can microbes be harmful? –How can microbes be helpful? –What roles do microbes play in helping to preserve the Earth? –Where would you expect to find a lot of microbes, and why? –Where would you expect to find a small number or no microbes, and why? — With what items do you come into contact every day that contain microbes? –What measures are being taken to eliminate or reduce dangerous microbes found in food, the air, and the water supply? Student learning will be assessed based on initial journal response, participation in class discussions, thorough group research of an assigned microbe, inclusion of all research in a “Microbe Biography,” and accurately drawn illustration of assigned microbes represented in the specified scale. abyss, bacterium, microbe, tendrils, colonies, parasites, terrestrial, pervasiveness, biosphere, netherworlds, inherent, filaments, quantifying, elucidation, putative, discrepancy, veracity, analogs, Lilliputian, enzymatic, primordial, communalism, aggregate, sediments, amorphous, substrates, opaque, morphologies, dogma 1. What are the basic qualities of life? How does one determine whether or not something is alive? Create a visual aid that explores the different qualities that something must possess to be characterized as “living,” including the roles that carbon, oxygen, nitrogen and hydrogen play in all living things. 2. The featured article refers to the “cellular machinery” of living organisms. Investigate the similarities and differences between plant and animal cell structures, focusing on the specific tasks of the pieces of the “cellular machinery” in each. Students can look at plant cells (such as a leaf scraping or onion peel) and animal cells (such as cheek cells scraped carefully with a toothpick from inside the mouth) under a microscope to examine the cell wall and nucleus of both types of cells. 3. Investigate the presence of microbes living in your environment with the lab-based Learning Network lesson plan “Petrified of Bacteria” ( ). 4. Research how microbes are added or exist naturally in different types of foods that we eat every day, such as cheese, chocolate, tea, bread, and root beer. What roles do different microbes play in the foods that we eat? Create a Microbe Menu exploring the existence of these invisible organisms in our food. 5. Create a “How It Works” poster investigating the history and functions of electron microscopes. Students can also “virtually use” electron microscopes online by going to a search engine such as Yahooligans ( ), typing “electron microscope” in the search box, and exploring the many electron microscope sites that are linked. 6. Investigate how microbes both help us to survive and can harm us. Create a “Help Us/Harm Us” chart that details the many functions, both positive and negative, of microbes in our lives. 7. Write biographies of biologists involved in the advancement of the field of microbiology, such as Louis Pasteur and Antony van Leeuwenhoek. 8. Watch the movie “Powers of Ten” by the Charles and Ray Eames (available as a video, and also as a book, a flip book, and an interactive CD-ROM). How does one’s view of a specific picture change when the “magnifying lens” is increased or decreased? After viewing the movie, draw a series of “Power of Ten” pictures, starting with one scene and magnifying it several times, then “zooming in” on a part of the scene to magnify a smaller area. 9. Research other scientific discoveries about which there was a lot of skepticism and disbelief. What different factors add to skepticism with regard to science? How are scientists treated when they propose new and different scientific theories? What is the history behind some scientific “truths” once regarded as highly skeptical (such as the Earth revolving around the sun)? 10. Explore the quest, on the part of scientists and others, to discover whether or not life exists outside Earth. Why is this such a historically prominent question? How have people attempted to prove and disprove theories about life on other planets? What research has been done about whether or not there has been life on Mars, including evidence from Martian fossils as discussed in the featured article? What are your thoughts on whether or not life exists outside our planet? 11. Study organisms that seem to have to live in communities. What relationships exist among the members of a species? What is the relationship between the individual and the community? Create a classroom poster exploring the importance of community to a specific species of organism. 12. Explore the use of microbes in germ warfare technology. Why do biological weapons pose such an enormous risk? Global History- Research how microbes have devastated specific populations around the world, such as bubonic plague and mad cow disease. Under what conditions did these different microbes flourish? Health- Investigate products and processes that are popularly used today to kill microbes in our food, air, and water supplies, such as antibacterial soaps, air and water purifiers, and food radiation. Interview a health care professional about the effectiveness and safety of these products. Language Arts -The featured article refers to nanobes as “lilliputian.” What is the literary allusion of “lilliputian”? What other literary characters are famous for their diminutive size? -List metaphors and similes that relate to size, or play a word game in which students must finish this sentence: “She/He was so small that…” (example, “…she uses a Cheerio for a swimming float.”) Mathematics -Research the sizes of different microbes and slightly larger organisms (such as insects and birds). Then, enlarge the organisms based on a scale of one nanometer= one centimeter, and draw them (or parts of them) as closely to scale as possible, from smallest to largest, on a long strip of butcher paper. Students can also calculate the ratios of the relative sizes of these organisms to each other. -Create a class list of prefixes that relate to number, including “nano-.” Students should research the origins of these prefixes and list examples of their use in everyday language. Teaching with The Times- Maintain a scrapbook of articles that discuss how microbes affect the human population, both in positive and negative ways. Stalking the Mysterious Microbe ( ) provides pictures, facts and trivia about viruses, bacteria, fungi, and other creatures so small you can’t usually see them. Microbe Zoo ( ) lets you discover the many worlds of hidden microbes. The major attractions of the zoo include Dirt Land, Animal Pavilion, the Snack Bar, Space Adventure, and Water World. Fundamentals of Microbiology 101 ( ) enlightens non-science students to the wonders of the unseen microbial world that flourishes in and around us. Microbes- Invisible Invaders, Amazing Allies ( ) lets you read microbe facts, explore a microbe dictionary, and even meet a microbe at this informative site based on a traveling museum exhibit. Intimate Strangers: Unseen Life on Earth ( ) is a PBS site that teaches about the good and bad things microbes do for the Earth and its creatures. Grades 6-8 Science Standard 4- Knows about the diversity and unity that characterize life. Benchmark: Knows ways in which living things can be classified (CTSS – ‘science’, ‘6-8’, ‘4’) Science Standard 7- Understands how species depend on one another and on the environment for survival. Benchmarks: Knows how an organism’s ability to regulate its internal environment enables the organism to obtain and use resources, grow, reproduce, and maintain stable internal conditions while living in a constantly changing external environment; Knows that organisms can react to internal and environmental stimuli through behavioral response; Knows ways in which species interact and depend on one another in an ecosystem; Knows relationships that exist among organisms in food chains and food webs (CTSS – ‘science’, ‘6-8’, ‘7’) Science Standard 9- Understands the basic concepts of the evolution of species. Benchmarks: Knows that the fossil record, through geologic evidence, documents the appearance, diversification, and extinction of many life forms; Knows basic ideas related to biological evolution (CTSS – ‘science’, ‘6-8’, ‘9’) Science Standard 14- Understands the nature of scientific knowledge. Benchmarks: Knows that all scientific ideas are tentative and subject to change and improvement in principle, but for most core ideas in science, there is much experimental and observational confirmation; Understands that questioning, response to criticism, and open communication are integral to the process of science (CTSS – ‘science’, ‘6-8’, ’14’) Science Standard 16- Understands the scientific enterprise. Benchmarks: Knows that people of all backgrounds and with diverse interests, talents, qualities, and motivations engage in fields of science and engineering– some of these people work in teams and others work alone, but all communicate extensively with others; Knows that the work of science requires a variety of human abilities, qualities, and habits of mind; Knows various settings in which scientists and engineers may work; Knows that throughout history, many scientific innovators have had difficulty breaking through accepted ideas of their time to reach conclusions that are now considered to be common knowledge; Knows ways in which science and society influence one another (CTSS – ‘science’, ‘6-8’, ’16’) Grades 9-12 Science Standard 4- Knows about the diversity and unity that characterize life. Benchmark: Knows how organisms are classified into a hierarchy of groups and subgroups based on similarities that reflect their evolutionary relationships (CTSS – ‘science’, ‘9-12’, ‘4’) Science Standard 7- Understands how species depend on one another and on the environment for survival. Benchmark: Knows how the interrelationships and interdependencies among organisms generate stable ecosystems that fluctuate around a state of rough equilibrium for hundreds or thousands of years (CTSS – ‘science’, ‘9-12’, ‘7’) Science Standard 9- Understands the basic concepts of the evolution of species. Benchmark: Knows how natural selection and its evolutionary consequences provide a scientific explanation for the diversity and unity of past and present life forms on Earth (CTSS – ‘science’, ‘9-12’, ‘9’) Science Standard 14- Understands the nature of scientific knowledge. Benchmarks: Knows ways in which science distinguishes itself from other ways of knowing and from other bodies of knowledge; Knows that scientific explanations must meet certain criteria to be considered valid; Understands how scientific knowledge changes and accumulates over time; Knows that from time to time, major shifts occur in the scientific view of how the world works, but usually the changes that take place in the body of scientific knowledge are small modifications of prior knowledge (CTSS – ‘science’, ‘9-12’, ’14’) Science Standard 16- Undersands the scientific enterprise. Benchmarks: Understands that individuals and teams contribute to science and engineering at different levels of complexity; Understands that science involves different types of work in many different disciplines; Knows that creativity, imagination, and a good knowledge base are all required in the work of science and engineering (CTSS – ‘science’, ‘9-12’, ’16’) Comments are no longer being accepted. Sign up for our free . Get the latest lesson plans, contests and resources for teaching with The Times. 