computer virus19.txt
Peter Norton, the California software entrepreneur, and his wife, Eileen, have announced that they are donating nearly 1,000 works by more than 450 artists to 29 institutions. Most of the works are from the 1990's. In sheer numbers, it is one of the largest gifts of contemporary art by a private donor. Mr. Norton, who estimated the total value of the works at more than $3 million, said gifts would go to the Tate Gallery in London and a variety of United States institutions, ranging from the Museum of Modern Art (which is to receive nearly two dozen works) and the Whitney Museum of American Art in Manhattan to small and medium-size museums and college art galleries across the country, though predominantly in the West. He said that those museums had demonstrated what Mr. Norton, 56, called a ''spunky'' commitment to new art. They include the Johnson Community College Gallery of Art in Overland Park, Kan.; the Bard Center for Curatorial Studies at Bard College in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y.; and the Kemper Museum of Contemporary Art in Kansas City. Mo. The list also includes a museum in Manhattan that has not yet opened, the first in the United States to be devoted to sex. Mr. Norton's gift is the first donation of art to the for-profit museum, which is planned for Fifth Avenue and 27th Street. The 1,000 works are generally minor but are nonetheless precious to many of the smaller institutions, some of which are just beginning to assemble collections. The better-known art ranges from set-up photographs by Cindy Sherman to the painter John Currin's parodic pornography to Joel-Peter Witkin's surreal and often alarming photographs, the sort of art that can be difficult for small museums to raise money to buy. The five-year-old Kemper Museum will receive 15 works by artists including the photographer Nan Goldin. Dan Keegan, the museum's director, described it as ''the first we've ever received of fresh stuff,'' meaning new art. ''The gift fills large holes,'' he said. No good deed is taken at face value in the art world, and there was grumbling among rival collectors that the donation was a way for Mr. Norton to dump unwanted art from his collection in exchange for favorable publicity. ''You can spin anything in any uncomplimentary way or vice versa,'' Mr. Norton responded. ''We're focusing our collection, and you can use other words, flattering or otherwise, for focusing, if you'd like. ''What is the whole point of having rich people wandering around among us? To engage in certain frivolous mischief that the public benefits from enormously,'' he continued. The donation represents some public good and some public amusement.'' Mr. Norton is not the only prominent collector of new art to receive conspicuous attention lately. Charles Saatchi, the Briton whose ''Sensation'' exhibition just closed at the Brooklyn Museum of Art, is in many ways the opposite of Mr. Norton, with different tastes in art and different political views, although both men share a reputation in art circles for cunning and combativeness. Their paths have crossed in the past, when they fought in court over the ownership of a painting, ''The Wizard'' by Mr. Currin. Mr. Norton prevailed in that case, and now that picture is part of the donationto the Tate. Mr. Norton said that the timing of his announcement, just at the closing of ''Sensation,'' was coincidental. ''The thought didn't even cross my mind,'' he said. ''If people now see Saatchi negatively -- and I'm not characterizing him that way, the criticism seems unfair to me -- then our making this gift is at least an example of a different kind of public behavior by a collector. It's a token of what a lot of other people are doing more quietly.'' One consequence of the culture wars of the last decade, including the tumult over ''Sensation,'' in which a controversial work prompted Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani to try to cut off the museum's city financing, seems to have been to increase skepticism toward new art, particularly the abrasive and confrontational works that Mr. Norton sometimes embraces. ''We tend to be interested in alternative communities, gay and lesbian artists, different ethnicities, gender issues,'' Mr. Norton said of his and his wife's collecting. ''We began, like everyone else, buying sporadically. Then gradually we figured out what we were doing. Our strengths are in Hispanic and African-American art. I'm uninterested in medium per se, but a lot of the art also turns out to be photo-based because a lot of contemporary art, particularly contemporary art with social content, is photo-based.'' Some works to be given away (prints, generally) are by 20th-century Modernists like Miro, Munch, Jean Rouault and Jean Tinguely. With exceptions like Ms. Sherman, Chuck Close, Robert Rauschenberg and Ed Ruscha, few of the contemporary artists in the donation are well known. A handful -- including Mr. Currin, Elizabeth Peyton, Wolfgang Tillmans and Nari Ward -- are what might be called prominent emerging artists. But most of them are young, lesser-known or unknown. Twice recently Mr. Norton has made attention-grabbing gifts. He gave $600,000 to the Signature Theater Company in Manhattan in September, and earlier last year he paid more than $150,000 at a Sotheby's auction for the private letters that the novelist J. D. Salinger had sent to Joyce Maynard. Mr. Norton returned the letters to Mr. Salinger. (He still has not heard from Mr. Salinger, he said.) Brought up in Seattle and educated at Reed College, Mr. Norton now splits his time between Santa Monica, Calif., and Manhattan. He went into business for himself as a computer programmer in 1981 after I.B.M. introduced its first personal computers, and he invented programs like UnErase, to recover deleted files, and the Norton anti-virus software, before selling his company to Symantec Corporation in 1990. He and his wife began collecting art in the early 80's. Their collection outgrew several homes, offices and a warehouse. When the Nortons acquired the collection of nearly 800 works that belonged to Karen and Clyde Beswick in 1998, ''that pushed us to do something,'' Mr. Norton said. Tom Solomon, an art consultant to Mr. Norton, and Susan Cahan, the senior curator and director of arts programs for the Norton Foundation, spent the next two years paring down the couple's holdings by assembling the donation, which constitutes 40 percent of the couple's collection. The recipients were winnowed from several hundred possibilities to the final 29, including 10 in California and 4 more elsewhere in the West. Mr. Norton said that because he was a trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, he gave that museum first crack at the art, ''as a matter of courtesy,'' and he was ''amazed'' that the Modern ended up selecting 21 works. ''On the whole, it is true, the works we're giving away are not major works,'' Mr. Norton said. ''And that's why we didn't presume that any of the major museums would be interested.'' None of the works that the Modern requested can be said to be crucial to that museum, although they do allow for a hedging of bets against shifting tastes. ''They fill gaps, basically, with young artists whom we didn't already own,'' said Glenn Lowry, the Modern's director. ''This is the kind of donation that creates breadth in a contemporary collection. And what matters with new art is having breadth for the long term, as the reputations of artists shake out. It ensures that the collection has legs to grow on.'' The gifts will have a far greater impact on smaller museums with more limited budgets and modest collections. These institutions generally were offered packages that were put together by Mr. Solomon and Ms. Cahan according to themes like ''the unnatural'' and ''conceptual sculpture.'' The Kemper in Kansas City got a package called ''pleasure/pain.'' Dana Self, the Kemper's curator, applied to the Norton Foundation more than a year ago when she heard that the couple might be giving art away. Mr. Solomon spent a day at the Kemper Museum and then decided to donate, a bronze sculpture of a hand and forearm with a razor blade in the wrist by Terry Allen and a Matthias Herrmann close-up photograph of a tongue licking lips, in addition to the photograph by Ms. Goldin. The Kemper, typical of the sort of institution that Mr. Norton is supporting through the gift, presents roughly a dozen exhibitions a year, mostly of new art. It has no acquisitions budget, and until now its wholly 20th-century collection, from its founder, R. Crosby Kemper, included hardly any work of the last 20 years. ''The gift is significant to our community as an acknowledgment by the Nortons that we're doing a good job,'' Ms. Self said. ''It helps other people understand what we need. Naturally we're overjoyed.'' 