It has been an anxious few weeks for computer users trying to ward off various worms and viruses, which can take over their laptops and desktop machines and even bring businesses and public agencies to a halt. Malicious computer programs have been around for years, with hundreds of viruses apt to be circulating at any one time, but the attacks this month have been particularly trying. Yesterday experts barely headed off a programmed acceleration of a viral attack that has already flooded the Internet with hundreds of millions of infected e-mail messages. The latest round of computer woes started earlier this month when the Blaster worm took advantage of a weakness in the Windows operating system to invade computer hard drives, where it slowed operations and moved on to attack other computers as well. This irritation was promptly compounded by a similar worm, called Nachi or Welchia, that seems to have been designed to follow in the footsteps of Blaster. Just as these problems seemed to be receding, the latest version of a virus called SoBig invaded many computers in the form of attachments to e-mail notes. When an unwary user opened such an attachment, the virus could steal all the e-mail addresses residing on the computer and mail copies of itself to those people as well, inviting the unwary to click on the attachment and start the infection moving again. Virtually everyone involved in the Internet can share some of the blame for these lapses in security. Microsoft, whose Windows operating systems were the target of the worms, can be faulted for failing to design and test its software adequately. Internet service providers have not stressed security as much as ease of connection. Government and corporate network administrators have sometimes been slow to safeguard their systems. And individuals have been notoriously lax about keeping their antivirus protection up to date. Indeed, Microsoft offered a free software patch to protect against the Blaster worm in July, yet many users never bothered to download it. These latest worms and viruses have been disruptive, but they have not permanently damaged hard drives or destroyed files. Even so, they provide clear warning that security must be improved before a more destructive attack drags this computerized society to a standstill. 