computer virus27.txt
BOOKS OF THE TIMES TRANSMISSION By Hari Kunzru 276 pages. Dutton. $24.95. ''Anyone on foot in suburban California is one of four things: poor, foreign, mentally ill or jogging,'' Hari Kunzru writes in his wickedly astute second novel, ''Transmission.'' The Indian-born computer whiz Arjun Mehta isn't a runner, and his mental state is uncertain, but the first two adjectives certainly apply. ''Mummy, I'm going to America!'' Arjun announces early in this deft comedy of global manners and cyberpranks. ''He might as well have said prison, or be trampled by horses,'' Arjun's mother thinks, just before she bursts into tears. But her boy has been seduced: he imagines a Silicon Valley ''where surfer girls accompanied you to films viewable on the day of international release and the number of available flavors N was always n + 1, where n was the total when you last looked at the menu.'' Arjun is such a creature of computer culture that he shocks an Indian friend by preferring Silicon Valley to Hollywood. ''What would you rather run your fingers over, computer keyboard or Cameron Diaz?'' the friend asks in disbelief. Arjun's sister, Priti, is able to stay home in India by picking up an Australian accent and learning to describe ''on-the-barbie'' as ''an Australian style of tandoori cooking.'' That way she can adopt the nom-de-phone of Hayley and take on telephone work that has been outsourced to India from New South Wales. But Arjun is more of a romantic, and so he travels around the world to seek work with a company that detects computer viruses. ''Transmission,'' which depicts a tiny computer mouse at the top of every page, is not just about stopping viruses but also about being creative -- very creative in Arjun's case -- in instigating them. With this second novel (after ''The Impressionist,'' a wildly inventive gallop through the raj with a shape-shifting British-Indian hero), the entertaining Mr. Kunzru makes it even clearer that he has a flair for culture clash and metamorphosis. The new book's other characters are every bit as mutable -- and comically hapless -- as Arjun proves to be. Chief among them is Guy Swift, an entrepreneur from London who has come up with Tomorrow* as a clever name for his consulting business. Everything about Guy is studiedly ironic, right down to the ring tone he chooses for his cell phone. ''He knew that the tiniest lapse of concentration, the smallest failure of response, could send him tumbling down toward the place of discount clothing outlets, wood-chip wallpaper and economy chicken pieces,'' the book says of Guy. As it is, he lives in a trendy glass high-rise in London, complete with a Hopi Indian meditation space that features the sound of coyote cries. Guy has acquired a beautiful girlfriend named Gabriella. She is bored with him, and no wonder. When Guy wants to wow Gabriella, he Googles the phrase ''expensive gifts'' and finds something to send her. The attached card reads ''Impressed? xG.'' What do these separate people, places and cultures have to do with one another? It is Mr. Kunzru's amusing notion that the madcap blurring of their destinies is only a mouse-click away. So ''Transmission'' sets off a comedy of manners, prompted by Arjun's desperately unhappy, bait-and-switch experience of the American dream. (''Things ok here yes lots of girls wear short pants yes it is nice no have not spoken to many yet or seen p anderson or bv slayer busy got to go,'' he writes home.) And its plot comes to incorporate Leela Zahir, India's sweetheart and the star of countless bad Bollywood movies, into Arjun's machinations. Leela is in the midst of the kind of Indian musical that calls for scenes of the Scottish Highlands (Mr. Kunzru is particularly funny about the crazy incongruities of this genre) when she is dragged into the book's cyberscheme. And while Mr. Kunzru is laying the groundwork for a meltdown with an effect that will be cumulative, ''an accretion of frustration, a furring of the global arteries,'' he also sends Guy to try his salesmanship in far-flung locales like a golf course in Dubai and a dauntingly elegant restaurant in Brussels. ''Guy looked at King Leopold II,'' Mr. Kunzru writes about a piece of statuary in the restaurant. ''King Leopold looked back at Guy, who checked his tie to see if it was straight. He was sweating.'' If ''Transmission,'' starts out with an eye for literate social satire that suggests Martin Amis or Zadie Smith, it winds up in a Chuck Palahniuk paranoid daydream of systematic unraveling. All the while Mr. Kunzru manages to be as affectionate as he is gimlet-eyed about his characters. While the book presents such kaleidoscopic absurdities as an Indian film crew's bewilderment at the stags' heads and violent tartans it encounters in Scotland, or Guy's game plan to make Europe more exclusive by marketing it as the V.I.P. room of the world, it also evokes the essential sweetness and bewilderment of everyone in this story. Good-humored even when it overheats into a conspiracy-theory finale, ''Transmission'' potently reaffirms this author's initial promise. It also vividly envisions the computer user's worst nightmares: ''These machines -- which had always terrorized them in small ways, by crashing, hanging, demanding meaningless upgrades or simply scolding them in the persona of an annoying cartoon paper clip -- were now revealed to harbor something more sinister, something with an agenda. This was it, the enemy within, a technological fifth column in the homes of ordinary Americans. By the time talk radio got hold of it, a consensus had emerged that the attack should be avenged in blood.'' 