More than a dozen law enforcement agents staged a raid Monday on a Manila apartment from which they said a malicious computer program was unleashed last week, disrupting computer systems around the world. They took one resident into custody and ordered his roommate, a woman, to turn herself in. The agents, including two representing the Federal Bureau of Investigation, apparently expected to find the computer from which the attack was launched. A local official, Gil Alnas, said that no computer was found, but that a box containing 17 items including telephones, wires, computer disks and computer magazines was seized. The officials would not say what had led them to the apartment and did not characterize the moves as arrests. And they said the suspects -- reportedly bank employees, both in their 20's -- were not necessarily the creators of the program, which they said could have been the work of anyone using the computer. They said there might be more suspects. ''It was only the computer used to launch the virus that was traced, but anybody could use that computer,'' said an official of the National Bureau of Investigation. ''The user here is invisible; it could be anybody. The difference is that the person we have identified is the registered owner of that computer.'' Late Monday, after three days of rumors, agents moved in on an apartment in a three-story house in the lower-middle-class Manila neighborhood of Pandacan. When the man, whom they named as Reomel Ramones, 27, arrived after work, they escorted him, in handcuffs, for questioning at their headquarters. A warrant was issued in the name of his roommate, Irene de Guzman. If she is responsible, it would make this a rare case in which a woman was implicated in a case of computer vandalism. Authorities said that they had reached her by telephone and that she had promised to surrender in the company of a lawyer. The Associated Press reported that relatives of Mr. Ramones said the authorities might actually be looking for a third person living in the apartment -- Ms. de Guzman's unemployed sister, who recently graduated from a Philippine computer school cited in e-mail that was linked to the attack. [In Washington, federal law enforcement officials said they believed that the two suspects in the Philippines were responsible for the virus, possibly along with one or more people yet to be identified. The officials said American authorities were willing to allow Filipinos arrested in the case to be prosecuted in the Philippines, even though the virus created havoc, and financial losses, in a number of countries.] The destructive program, which apparently originated through two e-mail addresses in the Philippines, has attributes of both a computer virus, which spreads parasitically by attaching itself to other programs, and a computer worm, which propels itself through computer networks. It is one of the fastest-spreading and most destructive acts of computer vandalism on record. The program was sent as an attachment to an e-mail with the subject line ''I Love You.'' Once activated, it propagates itself to e-mail addresses found on the victim's computer. By one estimate, it infected some 45 million users in at least 20 countries, and some companies and government agencies had to shut down their e-mail systems. One aspect of the program was intended to detect and steal passwords from victims' computers and relay them to a Philippine e-mail address. But that mechanism was disabled shortly after the attack was detected last Wednesday. Several variations have followed in recent days, two of them masking themselves as an e-mail joke and one as a receipt for a Mother's Day gift. Operating as a sort of poisoned chain letter, the messages, when opened, spread destruction through graphics and other saved files. Computer experts quickly identified the Philippines as the apparent source of the attack and traced it to the Pandacan neighborhood. Reports emerged several days ago that the suspect was a 23-year-old man living in the neighborhood. But investigators here first said they could not find a judge to issue a warrant over the weekend, then said they could not find a law under which to make out the warrant. ''We have no law on this, so we are looking for a law,'' Federico Opinion, chief of the National Bureau of Investigation, said before the raid Monday. The warrant was ultimately issued under the Access Device Act, which governs the use of codes, account numbers and passwords. It provides for a maximum punishment of 20 years in jail. Officials have 36 hours to bring charges against detainees. In addition, investigators said, charges could be brought in the United States because the program also caused damage there. The F.B.I. has been assisting Philippine investigators. Computer experts said the delay in detaining the suspects and seizing computer materials could have allowed them to destroy evidence and make prosecution more difficult. It remains unclear whether the culprits were connected to the AMA Computer College here, which has been named in computer messages related to the program. Michelle Navarro, the school's dean of students, said it had more than 10,000 computer programming students nationwide, including 3,000 at its main campus in Quezon City in metropolitan Manila. According to a local radio report, at least one of the suspects was a student at the school, perhaps in addition to his or her professional work. The investigation was complicated by the fact that the programmer apparently used one of the prepaid Internet accounts that are common here in which temporary user names and passwords are issued that are difficult to trace. The investigation included evidence from Access Net, one of several Philippine Internet service providers believed to have been used by the programmer. The chief operating officer of the provider, Jose Carlotta, said he had given extensive e-mail logs to government officials. 