computer virus15.txt
President Clinton proposed new measures today to combat unauthorized intrusions into the nation's essential computer networks, including a monitoring program for government computers that was scaled back amid criticism and a subsidized training program for cybersleuths. ''We live in an age when one person sitting at one computer can come up with an idea, travel through cyberspace, and take humanity to new heights,'' Mr. Clinton said. ''Yet someone can sit at the same computer, hack into a computer system, and potentially paralyze a company, a city or a government.'' The president said that, as part of the budget for the 2001 fiscal year he will propose on Feb. 7, he would request $91 million to develop programs to protect computer security. That sum would be part of a $2 billion package -- up from $1.7 billion in the current fiscal year -- for existing computer security efforts. The plan would create an institute to gather ''the finest computer scientists and engineers'' from universities, research organizations and private enterprise to advance computer security. Scholarships would be offered to students who studied computer security and agreed to join a ''Federal Cyber Service'' to help the government combat computer attacks, a model like the R.O.T.C. program used to train military officers. The plan would also include a sophisticated software system to monitor government computer activities for illegal actions. That system, the Federal Intrusion Detection Network, or Fidnet, has raised concerns among civil liberties groups. Clinton aides reworked the plan to address privacy concerns by restricting monitoring to government computers and ensuring that the program would be run by the General Services Administration, not the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The president and his chief counterterrorism adviser, Richard A. Clarke of the National Security Council, said threats to computer networks ran the gamut from teenage hackers to industrial spies to international terrorists. Officials say thousands of unauthorized computer invasions are tried across the country every day. The targets are governments, utilities and businesses, and the invaders' intentions include playing pranks and planting viruses. ''This is the first time in American history that we in the federal government, alone, cannot protect our infrastructure,'' Commerce Secretary William M. Daley said. ''We can't hire an army or a police force that's large enough to protect all of America's cell phones or pagers or computer networks.'' Tracking the hackers will take a more coordinated government response, a partnership with private companies and a corps of trained specialists, the president said. The initiatives grew out of a study that Mr. Clinton ordered in 1998. The president said heightened computer security should not tread on privacy rights. ''It is essential that we do not undermine liberty in the name of liberty,'' Mr. Clinton said. But some computer activists remained concerned about a government offensive in the unstructured world of cyberspace. James X. Dempsey, staff counsel for the Center for Democracy and Technology, a civil liberties group in Washington, said: ''The president is making some appropriate and even laudable proposals, but the monitoring of government computer systems -- I call it a surveillance program -- could still violate the privacy of legitimate computer users.'' 