computer virus16.txt
OTHER GENERATIONS: TRANSITIONS Blissfully ignoring his physics professor, Loren Merritt, age 14, slouched in his seat, his nose buried in a science-fiction novel called ''Xenocide.'' On a distant planet of the future, a young girl named Gloriously Bright has been asked by the interplanetary government to save humanity from a killer virus. ''Mr. Merritt, what do you think?'' asked Prof. Ernest M. Henley. Jerked back to the present on planet Earth, to a lecture hall at the University of Washington where he and his classmates were preparing for a final exam in first-term physics, Loren did not appear even a bit travel-weary or time-warped. ''I would know the answer if I was listening,'' he replied with a presumptuous calm. He closed his novel for a moment, straightened his spine and raised his bespectacled gaze to the chalkboard at the front of the hall. ''Could you repeat the question?'' he asked. Dr. Henley patiently restated a problem that had stymied the rest of the class: at what points, in a planet's elliptical orbit of a star, does the planet have zero tangential acceleration? Loren wearily announced the correct answer: the points nearest and farthest from the star. Then he flipped open his novel, slunk back into his outer-space slouch and rejoined the struggle of Gloriously Bright to save us all from doom. The next day, Mr. Merritt scored the highest grade on the physics exam. So it goes when gifted adolescents go to college. The trick in the higher education of the intellectually precocious is to challenge their minds without sabotaging their emotional stability or stealing their goof-off time. So far, there is no national consensus on how to pull this off. But there is widespread agreement among teachers, psychologists and parents of the gifted that when they languish in schools that bore them, they lose their enthusiasm for learning. There is no one measure that sanctifies a child as gifted. Some university psychologists say that the term applies to those who score above 145 on I.Q. tests on which a score of 100 is average. Others describe the gifted as those who, at the age of 13, score between 700 and 800 on the math and verbal parts of the SAT. These adolescents are rare, according to studies at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, amounting to about 1 in every 10,000 students in their age group. And they are considered at risk in schools that do not engage their minds. ''If these kids don't get any kind of acceleration, they often get slowed down, develop bad study habits and do not do that well in college,'' said Julian Stanley, a professor emeritus of psychology at Johns Hopkins University who has been studying gifted children for three decades. ''These kids can learn a huge amount in a short time, but there are many social and emotional development problems you have to worry about.'' American colleges have been experimenting for decades, trying to get the balance right. A result is a smorgasbord of accelerated learning options that vary from town to town and state to state. The most commonly available choice allows gifted students to escape high school or middle school for a few hours each week so they can attend classes at a college nearby. There are also scores of special summer courses, many convened on the campuses of elite universities like Johns Hopkins, Duke and Northwestern. They typically compress a year's worth of algebra, physics or chemistry into three intense weeks. Students in these programs are sometimes encouraged to skip one or two grades and enter college early. Far less widely available and more expensive is the early-college, live-in-a-dorm-with-your-peers approach. Simon's Rock College of Bard, in Great Barrington, Mass., is the country's only four-year liberal arts college designed for gifted young scholars. It usually accepts freshmen when they are 15 or 16 years old. Occasionally, the school accepts much younger students, including Seamus Farrow, the 12-year-old son of Mia Farrow and Woody Allen. A few other colleges reserve a dormitory for bright young students. Mary Baldwin, a women's college in Staunton, Va., enrolls 60 to 70 adolescent girls a year as full-time students in its Program for the Exceptionally Gifted. Some have been as young as 12. They live together in a residence hall with their own counselors and strict rules. Then there are the cold-turkey college immersions that often make the newspapers. Gifted youngsters enroll in colleges where they have no age-group peers, and there are no special programs to grease their transition to university life. Last fall, for instance, Gregory Smith, a 10-year-old described as a genius in newspaper and magazine articles, enrolled as a freshman at Randolph-Macon College in Ashland, Va. After a round of news conferences, he joined college-age students for calculus, physics, French and a history course called ''Warfare in Antiquity.'' Researchers who have studied the academic progress and psychological development of gifted young students say that, while there are always exceptions, it is not a good idea to enroll adolescents younger than 16 in regular college classes. ''The hormones aren't right,'' said Dr. Stanley, the director of the Center for the Study of Mathematically Precocious Youth, at Johns Hopkins. He once believed it made sense to send bright youngsters off to college, and in the late 1960's he encouraged several 13-year-olds to enter Johns Hopkins. But he has changed his mind. ''It is especially a problem if these children live in a residential situation on campus,'' Dr. Stanley said. ''It is very stressful for them to live in a dorm. We don't need that anymore. There are so many other options.'' One of the more successful is the early-college program here in Seattle on the campus of the University of Washington. Having been fine-tuned over the past 20 years, it is a calculated blend of intellectual rigor and parental supervision, exposure to the demands of senior faculty members and insulation from the hormones of regular university students. There is no prom. But, in recompense, gifted students escape what many of them describe as the numbing conformity and socially enforced mediocrity of American teenage culture. It's called Transition School, and it accepts no more than 16 students a year. The one-year program, for which tuition costs $8,000, requires that students live at home with their parents but be within commuting distance of Seattle. It also puts extraordinary demands on students, who usually are 13 and 14 years old. They are expected to do at least four hours a day of homework. When the year is over, after having been force-fed the equivalent of four years of high school in nine months, students enroll as regular freshmen at the University of Washington. They are allowed to move on campus only after they become juniors. Along with all the work, the program also allows students a chance to be themselves -- to be proudly brainy or playfully brainless -- in the company of their true intellectual peers. Loren Merritt, the 14-year-old physics whiz, who is in the Transition School and proudly describes himself as a nerd, explains the social benefits of being able to hang out with his equals. ''When I was in middle school last year, there were a few nerds and a few kids who I would describe as nerd-sympathizers, and then there were hundreds of kids who were really antinerd,'' he said. He recalled the bruises and humiliation of losing two fights last year in eighth-grade gym class with members of the antinerd majority. But in Transition School, he said, ''Half the class are nerds and all the others are sympathizers.'' Loren then quoted a person he deeply admires, Harr Chen, a classmate in Transition School who is generally regarded as the smartest out of a very smart bunch. Harr zipped through high-school trigonometry and algebra before he turned 8. He recently built his own computer from scratch. He often teaches computer programming to his father, who is a senior computer specialist at the University of Washington. Harr intends to earn a Ph.D. in computer science, start his own high-tech company and then return to school to obtain a doctorate in genetics. ''Harr has a saying,'' Loren said. ''He says, 'Be nice to nerds because some day you will be working for them.' '' Harr Chen is 12 years old. To engage youngsters with the in- tellectual precociousness of Harr Chen and Loren Merritt, educators at the Transition School say the starting point in the application process is to find out if a potential student is passionately interested in learning, and not just aping the ambition of his or her parents. ''We have had a number of applicants who had perfect 800 scores on both the math and verbal parts of the SAT and they were not students for us,'' said Nancy J. Sisko, the school's principal. ''We want to see that learning for learning's sake is a passion for the students we accept. We are not interested in students, no matter how bright they are, who study only because that is what their parents want them to do.'' The school uses standardized testing to reduce the annual applicant pool to about 90 from 300. Then, in an attempt to sift out parental influence from the real desires of precocious students, teachers conduct interviews with an applicant's teachers, parents and the applicant alone. Parents are asked to leave the room. Still, nearly every year, Dr. Sisko said that a few students are accepted into the program who are more driven by their parents' agenda than by their own. These students usually resent the homework and drop out, she said. ''We find that some parents are incapable of separating their own egos from their children,'' Dr. Sisko said. ''Before these students come into our program, they were the outstanding student in their schools. But here, even though they work very hard, that's not possible. We find that students accept this much more easily than their parents. What is astonishing is how incredibly draining one or two anxious parents can be.'' Parents, of course, have a fundamental role to play in the academic success of gifted children. At Johns Hopkins, Dr. Stanley has been observing the behavior of these parents for more than 30 years and says he can quickly size up the ones who hobble their gifted children. ''The worst ones are desperate to show off their child,'' Dr. Stanley said. ''They want to preserve the fiction that this is the brightest child in the world. They want to push them into college before they are ready. I call them creator parents.'' ''The best parents are facilitators,'' he said. ''They aren't pushers. They aren't creators. When they discover that their kids have these extraordinary talents, they help them find ways to be challenged.'' Baokai and Ping Chen, parents of Harr, are facilitators. They immigrated to the United States from China in 1990, and have spent most of the past five years searching for schools to challenge their only child. Mrs. Chen, who was a high-school mathematics teacher in China, discovered that her son was curious about her Chinese math textbooks. While he was still in elementary school in Olympia, Wash., she helped him work through all of the books. When St. Martin's College, a local private institution, offered Harr a chance to take advanced math courses, Mrs. Chen spent much of every school day shuttling the boy between public school and the college. Last fall, in the first few weeks of Transition School, she drove Harr from Olympia to Seattle every weekday and waited for him in a parking lot all day. Mr. Chen has also shouldered the facilitating burden. Midway through the fall quarter at Transition School last year, he quit his computer job in Olympia and found a new one at the University of Washington. He took a small apartment on campus so his son could walk to school. Mr. Chen says he goes for a daily walk with Harr, during which they often discuss mathematics, philosophy, software, psychology, current events, Confucian philosophy and business opportunities. ''He has a lot of humor and he helps me to correct my English, for sure the grammar and spelling,'' Mr. Chen said. ''But I help him, too. I think that is the way that parents have a big, big role in developing their children, especially in social thought.'' Even for parents who figure out how to help their gifted children without crushing them with expectations, there are still major hurdles to overcome. Gifted children, especially if they enter college early, tend to race into adulthood at a pace that alarms and saddens many parents. Since Vanessa Alford, 13, enrolled last fall in the Transition School, her father says he has been feeling miserable. ''It crushes me because she is my little girl, and I see every day that she is doing nothing but working her tail off,'' said Steve Alford, who owns a contracting business in Arlington, Wash., about 50 miles north of Seattle. ''I wasn't prepared emotionally to lose Vanessa at this age to college life.'' His daughter leaves for school at 5:30 a.m., sits in a bus for nearly four hours a day commuting to and from Seattle, then studies at home until 11 at night or later. ''When I go to bed, she is always sitting at the computer,'' said Mr. Alford, who did not attend college. ''The things I think she should be doing at her age, well, they just aren't important to Vanessa. I want her to go to ballgames and hang out with her friends and do some baby-sitting. Vanessa did homework on Halloween night and didn't go out with her friends. It killed me. She was upstairs at that computer.'' Vanessa herself says that the Transition School is both more challenging and more exhausting than she had imagined. Because of weak preparation in mathematics, she is struggling in her math and physics classes. But her teachers say she is a resilient and disciplined student. They believe she will survive the year and enter college as a freshman when she is 14. ''I know this entire year is going to be totally terrible,'' Vanessa said. ''I have adapted to the lack of sleep.'' She has assured her father that her long hours hurt him more than they hurt her. When the transition year is over (usually one or two students drop out, although none have so far this academic year), nearly all the survivors thrive as full-time students at the University of Washington. About 95 percent of them graduate, and their collective grade point average is about 3.6. Almost without exception, they go on to elite graduate schools. There are no national longitudinal studies of the career success of students who attend programs like the Transition School. But their teachers have the subjective impression that those with the maturity and discipline to thrive academically as teenagers tend to do exceptionally well. Mirna Vitasovic graduated summa cum laude from the University of Washington and is now a graduate student in chemistry at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. She was 13 when she entered the Transition School and remembers it as both the most grueling and the most fun year of her life. ''I learned how to think and how to study,'' Ms. Vitasovic, now 18, said. ''I hadn't had close friends before. It was nice to have intellectual conversations with people your age, without feeling weird for it.'' Gifted young people who skip high school are often asked if they have regrets. Do they have second thoughts about passing up teenage rituals like going to the prom? According to Ms. Vitasovic and several other gifted people who skipped high school, the answer is: You have got to be kidding. ''I'm afraid that if I had gone to high school, I would have been so bored that I would have given up on it,'' she said. Eugene Volokh, now 31 and a professor of law at the University of California, Los Angeles, attended that school as a full-time student in computer science between the ages of 12 and 15. Was it a happy time? ''No,'' he said. ''I didn't have a lot of friends. I regretted not having a social life. I went through three years of being obnoxious and geeky. But, as a logical matter, it was better than being bored and not getting anything out of school. We are allotted about 80 years on this planet and to spend six or seven of them learning stuff at a glacial pace is a waste.'' At the Transition School, some of the most painful social bumps have been ironed out for gifted adolescents. Antinerd elements do not make life miserable. Students sometimes try to impress one another by tossing out multisyllabic vocabulary, and sometimes they toss oranges at one another. The school has a tire swing that hangs from a big, old tree. It is heavily patronized by brainy, ambitious young teenagers who are acting loopy together. Still, there are some bumps of adolescence that can't be ironed out. Megan Salmon, 14, is one of the best all-around students in the Transition School. She is excellent in English and history, and holds her own in math and physics. She is also among the most physically mature. Compared to her, several of the boys look like children. She gets along well with her classmates, but she has had to get over a major disappointment. ''I thought the guys would be cuter,'' she said. 