computer virus17.txt
Teaching ideas based on New York Times content. In this lesson, students investigate the nature, causes and statistics of diseases in lesser developed countries and explore ways in which disease impacts the global population.  Alison Zimbalist, The New York Times Learning Network 45 minutes- 1 hour Students will: 1. Assess what different problems, in society and for the poor themselves, arise due to poverty; indicate cause-effect relationships between responses; explore how these poverty issues may relate to immigration. 2. Explore how and why evaluating the health of immigrants to the United States changed over the course of the 20th century by reading and discussing “Major Screening for TB Shows Contrast in Conditions Since Days of Ellis Island.” 3. Investigate the nature, causes and statistics regarding diseases in lesser developed countries. 4. Develop and present a speech regarding disease in a lesser developed country and how it can be prevented, as well as ways in which disease impacts the global population (including immigration). -large sheets of construction paper (one per small group) -marker (one per small group) -paper -pens/pencils -classroom blackboard -copies of “Major Screening for TB Shows Contrast in Conditions Since Days of Ellis Island” (one per student) -resources with information on disease in different countries (computers with Internet access will be the most valuable resources; encyclopedias and references on specific countries will be helpful) 1. WARM-UP/DO-NOW: Prior to class, arrange desks so that students will be grouped in small groups of three or four, and place a large piece of construction paper and a marker at each group of desks. Upon entering class, each group responds to the following (written on the board prior to class): “What different problems, in society and for the poor themselves, arise due to poverty? Write ‘poverty’ in the center of your group’s paper, and as a group, brainstorm answers to this question, writing your responses around the center. Then, draw arrows between responses that seem to be in a cause-effect relationship (in other words, if one of your answers causes another of your answers to happen).” Students then share their “concept webs” with the class, posting them on the board. Then, as a class, discuss how these poverty issues may relate to immigration and health on a global scale. Explain to students that today they will be focusing on how and why evaluating the health of immigrants to the United States changed over the course of the 20th century 2. As a class, read and discuss “Major Screening for TB Shows Contrast in Conditions Since Days of Ellis Island,” focusing on the following questions: a. Why would an immigrant’s health be so closely scrutinized upon entering the United States? b. What is tuberculosis, and how are health officials now screening immigrants for the disease? c. How do the concerns of health officials in dealing with today’s immigrants differ from those of their profession 100 years ago? d. What “borders don’t really exist anymore” with regard to screening of immigrants? Why is “the potential of bringing in a disease… tremendous”? e. How were immigrants screened and “marked” for disease when coming through Ellis Island in the early 1900’s? What would happen to those who were ill? f. How, according to Professor Markel, did racism play a hand in immigration in the early 1900’s? g. What immigration laws are discussed in the article, and why were they created? h. Why is it “the illegal population (of immigrants) we’re worried about”? 3. Help each group of students choose a lesser developed country as the focus of research. Using all available materials in the classroom, each group researches the following (written on the board for easier student access): –What illnesses are currently causing major health and social problems in this country? –What are the causes of each illness? –For each disease, is the illness communicable/infectious, vaccine preventable, or non-communicable? –What statistics are available regarding the prevalence, treatment and deaths from each disease in this country? –What resources (including services) is this country unable to provide with regard to treating these illnesses, and why not? What would they need to be successful? 4. WRAP-UP/HOMEWORK: After completing their research, each group writes a speech to present at an international public health conference (a future class) regarding disease in their country and how it can be prevented. Speeches should incorporate the information gained through research, as well as propose ways in which illness in their countries could be partially or totally eliminated. Conduct this conference in a future class by having country representatives present their speeches. Then, discuss the ways in which disease in one country or region impacts the global population. –What connections exist between poverty and disease? –Why are people in poor countries more prone to some diseases than people in wealthier countries? –How does one define a “disease”? At what point does a disease become an epidemic? –How do diseases affect various elements of a society, such as economics, transportation, family life, and other aspects of daily life? –What epidemics exist in the world today, where are they, and how are they being treated by the world of medicine and by the media? –Should government agencies in different countries possess strains of deadly but widely eradicated viruses, and why? –How have modern medicine and medical technology affected the prevention and containment of diseases that have the potential to be epidemics today? –What is meant by the phrase “the immigrant experience”? –For what reasons do people immigrate to other countries? –How and why does the “immigration experience” today differ from that of 100 years ago? Do you think that immigrants today have more or less opportunities than those of the early 20th century, and why? –Why is there such a strict immigration process in the United States? –Do you feel that the perception of immigrants in the United States has changed since the early 20th century? Why or why not? –What impact has immigration had on the population of your town, city or state? Students will be evaluated based on initial group brainstorm work, participation in class discussions, and group research and written speech on disease in lesser developed countries. contagious, outreach, congregate, antibiotics, deports, detains, prevalent, vigilant, plagues, mandated, adhere, paupers, loathsome, communicable, quarantine, epidemics, pediatrics, incidence, visas, apprehended 1. Create a pamphlet or poster focusing on a disease mentioned in the article or another pervasive disease. Explore when and where scientists believe this disease originated, how the disease spread, symptoms, treatments, and how the disease affects the larger community (including statistics on the existence of the disease worldwide). You might also include a Web bibliography where people can find more information on the disease. 2. Develop a chart or illustration of the functions of the immune system, indicating how different organs, glands, and body systems are involved in the fighting of disease. 3. Create a “How It Works” poster about the effects of viruses and bacteria on the human body and how antiviral and antibacterial drugs aim to fight these agents. 4. Create an illustrated timeline examining the evolution of medical equipment or focusing on advances in the world of medicine in the 20th century. 5. On a map, indicate major United States immigration ports or border crossings that existed at the turn of the 20th century. Then, research statistical information about the immigrants coming through each port, including their countries of origin. 6. Research the immigration process and history of Ellis Island. Write a journal entry or series of entries from the perspective of an immigrant, sharing your experiences, fears and dreams. 7. Investigate the current immigration process for the United States, and create a flowchart of what one must do to both immigrate to the United States and to become a U.S. citizen. 8. Interview local public health officials regarding diseases present in your community and the services available to help those who are ill. 9. Write a research- based news story for newspaper or television news about pervasive diseases that exist in your country. Pose viable solutions to stopping these diseases from spreading further. 10. Create a preventative health guide that examines how one can protect oneself from contracting communicable illnesses. Include a glossary of related health and science terms such as communicable, antibody and epidemic. American History- Create a timeline of disease outbreaks in the United States and these outbreaks’ specific effects on people, politics, economics, and daily life in the United States. -Explore the immigration history of the United States (or focus solely on your city or town). What does the phrase “immigrant experience” mean when referring to United States history? How has the United States government monitored immigration through the years, particularly during the 20th century? How does immigration now compare to immigration 100 years ago? Civics- Interview an immigration attorney or use the Internet to learn about immigration law and legislation. Foreign Language- If there is a large population of immigrants in your city who speak the language of study, volunteer to serve as translators in clinics or other places in which translation between this language and English is necessary. Global History- Research the immigration patterns and laws in other countries. Is immigration encouraged or discouraged? Are quotas instituted, and why or why not? What is the “immigrant experience” like in these countries? What laws regulate immigration in these countries, and why were they established? Mathematics- Create a series of graphs illustrating populations of immigrants in the United States over at least a 50-year period of time, immigration quotas, or statistics related to the outbreak of a specific disease or diseases over a period of time. What do these graphs and statistics indicate? Media Studies- Investigate how the television and film media portray immigrants from different countries and regions. How do these portrayals affect our views of different groups of people? How do these portrayals influence or work against stereotypes of immigrants? Teaching with The Times- Keep a scrapbook of New York Times articles that discuss the “immigration experience.” For each article, evaluate obstacles and successes of the immigrants discussed. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services ( ) is the United States government’s principal agency for protecting the health of all Americans and providing essential human services, especially for those who are least able to help themselves. Anatomy of an Epidemic ( ) aims to educate any person interested in epidemics, focusing on some of the worst epidemics throughout history as well as general information on diseases. The objective of the World Health Organization ( ) is the attainment by all peoples of the highest possible level of health. The Immigration and Naturalization Service ( ) provides information on immigration services and benefits, legislation updates, and news on border management. From One Life to Another ( ) is a ThinkQuest site that looks at immigration to the U.S. during the 19th and 20th centuries, focusing on Irish, Jewish, Italian, and Swedish immigration. Ellis Island’s official Web site ( ) lets you explore this fascinating immigration museum. Grades 6-8 Health Standard 8- Knows essential concepts about the prevention and control of disease. Benchmarks: Understands how lifestyle, pathogens, family history, and other risk factors are related to the cause or prevention of disease and other health problems; Knows communicable, chronic, and degenerative disease processes and the differences between them Science Standard 6- Knows the general structure and functions of cells in organisms. Benchmark: Knows that disease in organisms can be caused by intrinsic failures of the system or infection by other organisms (CTSS – ‘science’, ‘6-8’, ‘6’) Geography Standard 9- Understands the nature, distribution and migration of human populations on Earth’s surface. Benchmarks: Understands demographic concepts and how they are used to describe population characteristics of a country or region; Knows the ways in which human movement and migration influence the character of a place (CTSS – ‘social’, ‘6-8’, ‘geo4’) Geography Standard 12- Understands the patterns of human settlement and their causes. Benchmarks: Knows the similarities and differences in various settlement patterns of the world; Knows ways in which both the landscape and society change as a consequence of shifting from a dispersed to a concentrated settlement form (CTSS – ‘social’, ‘6-8’, ‘geo4’) Geography Standard 13- Understands the forces of cooperation and conflict that shape the divisions of Earth’s surface. Benchmarks: Understands factors that contribute to cooperation or conflict within and between regions and countries (CTSS – ‘social’, ‘6-8’, ‘geo4’) Language Arts Standard 1- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Writes persuasive compositions; Writes compositions that speculate on problems/solutions; Writes in response to literature (CTSS – ‘english’, ‘6-8’, ‘1’) Language Arts Standard 4- Gathers and uses information for research purposes. Benchmarks: Uses a variety of resource materials to gather information for research topics; Determines the appropriateness of an information source for a research topic (CTSS – ‘english’, ‘6-8’, ‘4’) Language Arts Standard 7- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts. Benchmarks: Applies reading skills and strategies to a variety of informational texts; Summarizes and paraphrases complex, explicit hierarchic structures in informational texts; Uses new information to adjust and extend personal knowledge base; Seeks peer help to understand information; Draws conclusions and makes inferences based on explicit and implicit information in texts; Differentiates between fact and opinion in informational texts (CTSS – ‘english’, ‘6-8’, ‘7’) Grades 9-12 Health Standard 8- Knows essential concepts about the prevention and control of disease. Benchmarks: Understands how the immune system functions to prevent or combat disease; Understands the social, economic, and political effects of disease on individuals, families, and communities Science Standard 14- Understands the nature of scientific knowledge. Benchmarks: Knows that scientific explanations must meet certain criteria to be considered valid; Understands how scientific knowledge changes and accumulates over time (CTSS – ‘science’, ‘9-12’, ’14’) Geography Standard 9- Understands the nature, distribution and migration of human populations on Earth’s surface. Benchmarks: Understands population issues; Knows how international migrations are shaped by push and pull factors; Understands the impact of human migration on physical and human systems (CTSS – ‘social’, ‘9-12’, ‘geo4’) Geography Standard 12- Understands the patterns of human settlement and their causes. Benchmark: Knows the consequences of factors such as population changes or the arrival/departure of amajor industry or business on the settlement patterns of an area (CTSS – ‘social’, ‘9-12’, ‘geo4’) Geography Standard 13- Understands the forces of cooperation and conflict that shape the divisions of Earth’s surface. Benchmarks: Understands how cooperation and/or conflict can lead to the allocation of control of Earth’s surface; Knows the causes of boundary conflicts and internal disputes between culture groups; Understands the changes that occur in the extent and organization of social, political, and economic entities on Earth’s surface; Understands why some countries are land-locked; Understands how external forces can conflict economically and politically with internal interests in a region (CTSS – ‘social’, ‘9-12’, ‘geo4’) Language Arts Standard 1- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Writes persuasive compositions that evaluate, interpret, and speculate about problems/solutions and causes and effects; Writes reflective compositions; Writes in response to literature (CTSS – ‘english’, ‘9-12’, ‘1’) Language Arts Standard 4- Gathers and uses information for research purposes. Benchmarks: Synthesizes a variety of types of visual information, including pictures and symbols, for research topics; Synthesizes information from multiple research studies to draw conclusions that go beyond those found in any of the individual studies (CTSS – ‘english’, ‘9-12’, ‘4’) Language Arts Standard 7- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts. Benchmarks: Applies reading skills and strategies to a variety of informational texts; Summarizes and paraphrases complex, implicit hierarchic structures in informational texts, including the relationships among the concepts and details in those structures; Uses discussions with peers as a way of understanding information (CTSS – ‘english’, ‘9-12’, ‘7’) Comments are no longer being accepted. Sign up for our free . Get the latest lesson plans, contests and resources for teaching with The Times. 