ON Oct. 8, 1871, so the story goes, Catherine O'Leary's cow knocked over a lantern and started the Chicago fire that destroyed roughly half the city. A modern version of that disaster might be a worldwide electronic meltdown started by a single computer virus. ''The absolutely worst events would be a very aggressive global spread of a virus or a hacking attack on crucial parts of the infrastructure of the Net, taking down a whole continent,'' said Urs Baumeister, product manager for casualty insurance at Swiss Re, the world's second-largest reinsurance company, after Munich Re. Lesser but still serious damage could include the loss of power or phone service. ''One day we could have a household name that simply goes out of business, because the trust they built up over 90 years of time has been lost because they were unable to take care of their customers over a period of days due to a virus,'' said D.K. Matai, chief executive of mi2g, a computer security company in London. Despite the potential losses, companies are not buying insurance against electronic sabotage, in many cases because they are not aware that their existing policies do not cover it. Those who try to get insurance find that there are no policies being written against viruses, although they can buy limited coverage against hackers whose attacks are more local. The lack of insurance exists because insurers do not know how to provide adequately for possible losses. A fire caused by a cantankerous cow may mean local damage, a risk that a handful of insurance companies can share. A nascent virus could strike globally, bringing claims on many more policies simultaneously. ''We have no clue as to how to manage and handle these exposures,'' Mr. Baumeister said. ''You either exclude it or control how much capacity you can provide. But you have to assume as an insurer that all policies will be hit at the same time.'' Breaches of electronic security caused roughly $132 billion in damages in the first nine months this year, compared with $48 billion for all of 2002, according to mi2g. It says claims will be made for fewer than 10 percent of the cases because so few companies are covered. In August alone, viruses, worms and hacker attacks caused $35 billion in economic damage, according to mi2g. Most of that was caused by the SoBig.F virus. ''We never saw the phenomenon of $30 billion in economic damage from one species before,'' Mr. Matai said. Security experts say insurance companies worldwide, overwhelmed by hacking-related claims, have cut the coverage for electronic attacks from general-liability policies, leading to confusion among chief technology officers over what is and is not covered. According to a survey from Ernst & Young, one-third of chief technology officers incorrectly thought that their companies were covered for damages from attacks on computers by their regular property and casualty policies. An additional 34 percent said they did not have insurance; 22 percent did not know if they did, and only 7 percent said accurately that they were insured by a specific policy covering damage to computers. ''That is an astonishingly low figure, given the level of risk,'' said Ty Sagalow, chief operating officer of A.I.G. eBusiness Risk Solutions, a unit of the American International Group. Companies like Lloyd's of London and A.I.G. began offering insurance for electronic attacks only in the last four years. It typically costs $5,000 to $30,000 a year for $1 million in coverage. A.I.G., the largest insurer covering such claims, caps damage claims for its best customers at $25 million a year. The average limit, Mr. Sagalow said, ''is much, much lower,'' although he declined to give an exact amount. What is being underwritten is limited. A hacker attack --- by nature an isolated occurrence --- typically is covered, Mr. Baumeister of Swiss Re said. But data loss and business interruptions are not covered if they are caused by a virus, because a virus has the potential to attack worldwide. The traditional way insurers protect themselves -- by spreading risk -- does not work in this case. In addition to spreading their policies in a variety of areas, like life insurance as well as property insurance, companies transfer some risk to reinsurance companies like Munich Re and Swiss Re. Now, though, the reinsurers are refusing to take on the risk of electronic attacks. ''We can't give cover for so-called viruses in the computer area because of the accumulated risk,'' said Rupert Flatscher, a computer virus specialist at Munich Re. ''Compared to earthquakes, there are no borders. If we had a loss, it would be worldwide.'' Munich Re and Swiss Re have teams seeking a solution. But it is not possible to calculate the frequency or cost of such events on the basis of mathematical laws or empirical values. Companies that do not rely heavily on the Internet for doing business would not be seriously harmed by a work interruption. For others, the threat is greater. Bo Chamberlain, chief technology officer at Sunrise, a telecommunications company in Switzerland, says it is insured against breakdowns, but not against viruses. ''Nobody, to my knowledge, is willing to insure against a virus attack,'' Mr. Chamberlain said. ''You have to take measures and take into account that unforeseeable things are going to happen. Then you can survive even if you are attacked.'' 